AA	
AB	Abednego armbands an abalone (Abednego symbolically marks an abalone, sign of peace, tranquility and water, before entering the fiery pit) [armbands=ties a band or ribbon around object as a means of identification and tracking] Shadrach, Meshach nd Abednego famously survived being put into a fiery furnace by an evil king in the Bible. Abalone shells are the ones with the beautiful iridescent blues and purples.
AC	Achilles accessorizes an acoustic (Achilles decorates a lyre) [acoustic=acoustic guitar; accessorizes=puts object into pointy red ruby slippers, even a small thing that falls in, or with a large object like a boat, the slippers, or an outsized large sculpture of them, go on top] {Achilles, in repose, sitting by his tent with a lyre} In all of Homer's Iliad, only two people are pictured playing the lyre: Achilles and the man who ultimately kills Achilles, Paris. Achilles famously refuses to fight with Agamemnon because of a dispute over a woman, so the war against Troy rages on with Achilles and his army standing aside. When Agememnon sends three envoys to speak to Achilles, he is relaxing, playing a lyre. "They found him there, delighting in his heart now/ Plucking strong and clear on the lyre/ Beautifully carved, its silver bridge set firm/ He won from the spoils when he razed Eetoins city/ Achilles was lifting his spirits with it now/ Singing the famous deeds of fighting heroes/ Across from him Patroclus sat alone, in silence..." (Unrelated fun fact about Achilles: his shield has images of musical instruments and all sorts if things. Achilles loans his armor to his soulmate Patroclus, who is killed in battle by Hektor. Achilles' mother asks Hephaestus to make him new armor. Hephaestus makes him armor and a spectacular shield which is described in unprecedented length. In one of the outer rings there are images of men and women dancing).
AD	Adam addresses adderol (Adam Driver becomes a poster child for practicing good mental health) [addresses=writes an address on object, with the intention of mailing it to a friend; adderal=a pill container of adderall] {in the death star snack bar of the SNL sketch with Adam Driver} Adam Driver (Kylo Ren, Star Wars) famously walked out of 2015 interview because he doesn't like seeing or hearing recordings of his own scenes. Some called him a diva. Others said he he has anxiety and he was showing a good example of taking care of your mental health.
AE	Aesop aerosols aerogel (Aesop sprays a honeycomb bee's nest) [aerosols=spray paints with an aerosol] Aesop has a story where two groups of bees, the drones and the workers, go to a wasp to determine who built the honeycomb beehive. (spoiler alert: it was the workers). The wasp challenges both groups to build another one, and when the drones beg off the wasp knows it was the workers. I fancifully imagine that Aesop came up with this story while spraying a wasps nest, perhaps an item on his honey-do list. Aerogel is a "magic" substance used in insulation. It is a solid that has been made from an original gel. It is 99% air, and refracts light in a cool way. It is strong, but when it breaks it shatters. It has weird properties. The first aerogel was produced in 1934, as the result of a challenge or bet between two engineers.
AF	Alf afflicts an affidavit (Alf touches an affidavit that states he didn't steal a road sign, and turns it black) [afflicts=touches and turns black, by some sort of killing magic; affidavit=piece of paper, legal document] <Germany> {Alf, with Chef's hat, cooking in suburban kitchen} An affidavit is a written, signed piece of testimony used in court. Alf is a TV show. Alf was a cat-eating alien from the planet Melmac. Most of the time, he was voiced by the same person who puppeted him. But there was an actual 2 foot 9inch actor who got into the Alf costume for scenes where he showed his whole body. "The show was a huge hit in Germany. The city limits sign of the German city Alf was stolen so many times that the city ultimately stocked up a bunch of them, to always have a new one handy"
AG	Agueda aga's agave (Agueda cooks agave, perhaps making tequila) [aga's=fries OR bakes] /AH-guh/ {Agueda in her kitchen in Seattle with a spatula} The Aga is a Swedish luxury appliance: a stove and range. It was developed by a Nobel prize winning physicist in the 1920's. Apparently they're really something. Instead of one large oven compartment, the aga has four smaller compartments. The aga looks boxey and svelte. Agave (see tequila) is a plant grown in Mexico and used in tequila. An agave plant has a sunburst of crazy, spikey leaves.
AH	Asher ashes ash (Jane Asher let's ash fall from her cigarette) [ashes verb=throws campfire ashes at; ash=a bucket of woodstove or campfire ash] British actor Jane Asher has a famous picture where she's on the threshold of a dorm room smoking a cigarette. Born 1945, redhead, girlfriend and muse of Paul McCartney 1963 - 1968. Her father was a medical doctor, who identified Munchausen's syndrome (caregivers making up or causing illness in a patient). Jane Asher convinced her father to take her to a hospital museum to see the bones of the "Elephant Man".
AI	Aida airtights an air (Aida is trapped with her lover and a piece of sheet music in her airtight prison) [air=aria=a piece of sheet music] "Air" is another word for "aria". It is a type of opera song. At the end of the opera Aida, the Ethiopian Aida and her Greek/Egyptian(?) lover are sentenced to death. They are locked in a dungeon room and left to die.
AJ	Aja adjudicates an adjustor (Aja judges the dashboard's windshield wiper lever in a magical car) [adjudicates: imagine the person, wearing a judge's badge, walking around with a clipboard and adjudicating items; adjustor=that bent, black lever with the circular dial at its end, used to turn on and adjust windshield wipers] /properly, "Asia"/ {Aja sits in a car, with Donald Fagen in the passenger seat playing an electric base} Pay. Dirt. This is what it's all about, people. "Aja" is a song and album by Steely Dan, and "Kamakiriad" is a solo album by Donald Fagen of Steely Dan. "Kamakiriad" is Japanese for "praying mantis", and Fagen used it as the name for a special sort of magical car that you use to navigate through life. "Aja" (the name comes from the Korean wife of a high school friend of Fagen's) is Fagen's idealization of a perfect woman and a perfect, tranquil relationship. So Fagen's imaginary helpmate and guide through life, Aja, helps him to build his imaginary car, the Kamakiriad, including details about the dashboard dials and levers. Steely Dan: Donald Fagen and Walter Becker met at Bard college and created this unique, jazz-infused rock duo.
AK	Ackermann akimbos an ark (Ackermann questions the literal existence of the Ark of the Covenant) The Ark: picture the golden ark in "Raiders of the Lost Ark". Ackermann is a religious person, but stops short of a literal interpretation of the bible.
AL	Allison ales an alligator (Allison covertly pours her beer off the side of the boat at a party) [ales=pours beer on] {Allison, with a beer, on a Spring break bayou party on a boat owned by a friend} Dispensing with unwanted alcohol is a common problem at parties.
AM	Amir amasses ammo (Amir Nachumi gets fighter jets loaded with ammo into the air quickly) Amir Nachumi, brigadier general in the Israeli air force. Had 16 kills in his career. During the Yom Kippur war he disobeyed orders and scrambled his and his partner's planes. As they took off, MiGs bombed the runway they had just been on. Amir and the other plane shot down the MiGs and several other planes on the spot. Amir is a Hebrew and Arabic name meaning treetop, or tall.
AN	Anastasia announces an annual (Anastasia Higginbotham announces an annual literary award) [annual=marigold, which I'm 90% sure is that golden flower that appears in all Cincinnati yards every spring] Anastasia IS an award-winning author, so one day maybe she'll be the one handing out awards. An annual is a plant that has a life cycle of just one year. Marigolds and Petunias are two examples among 1000's.
AO	Aoki aortagrams an aorta (Steve Aoki X-rays his own heart) /A. O. kee/ Steve Aoki says that in 600 years we're all going to have donated organs so we live longer, or maybe it was manufactured organs. In an aortagram, they inject dye into your aorta then Xray it to see how blood is flowing. Aoki was born on Florida, and is of Japanese descent. His father founded the restaurant chain Benihana. "In 2012, Pollstar designated Aoki as the highest grossing dance artist in North America from tours."
AP	April applauds an apple (Aubrey Plaza, who plays April Ludgate, does advertisements for iPhones) [apple=the fruit; applauds=claps] {April, with phone, in her office getting the pic from her sister of Andy handcuffed on the curb} April, from "Parks and Recreation", uses her mobile a lot in the show, AND the actor, Aubrey Plaza, is a spokesperson for iPhones.
	
	
AQ	Aquaman aqueducts an aquarium (Aquaman returns the fish inhabitants of an aquarium to the sea via an aqueduct) [aqueducts=slides object down a water slide] <Atlantis (west of the Strait of Gibraltar)>
AR	Ari arrests an arrow (Ari Folman makes a movie about the horrors of war) [arrests=arrests or impounds, wraps with chains] {Bearded, unsmiling Ari Folman, with a cigarette in his mouth, in cartoon animation form, stands at the periphery of the scene of a massacre} btw: For me, "arrests" in the sentence means "brings to rest, stops in its tracks, a-rests". Ari Folman is an Israeli film-maker, who made, among other movies, "Waltz with Bashir", an animated exploration of his own real-life role in a massacre he was involved in while serving in the Israeli army. His role was to be part of the group that sent up flares that allowed fighter Jets (?) to find the group of people that were massacred. At the end of the movie, the animation dissolves into real footage of the aftermath of the carnage. In pics of Folman, he is bearded, and never smiling.
AS	Asa assails assam (Asa Griggs Candler challenges the tea market) [assam=a tea bag] /EY-suh/ Assam is a region of India that produces Assam tea. Asa is a common jewish name. Asa Griggs Candler (5'3" tall) was the Atlanta pharmacist who bought the formula for Coca-cola for $1750 in 1886 and founded the Coca-Cola company.
AT	Atilla attacks an At-at (Atilla attacks an At-at)
AU	Austin augers an Audi (Austin Powers damages a car) There are two scenes with car damage in the Austin Powers movies: one where he does a 3-point turn in a narrow hallway, and one where he crashes into, and gets stuck in, the base of a Godzilla statue, then drives around terrifying people. (His car is really a jaguar, or "shaguar"). An auger is one of those specialized drill bits where the shaft is narrow and the cutting spiral is very large, extending well beyond the width of the shaft. They can be giant, for drilling into the earth, or small, for wood and other projects. Audi is a German luxury car line, and is now a subsidiary of Volkswagen. Their logo is the 4 linear linked rings, similar to the Olympics logo. Audi was founded in 1909 in the German city of Zwikau, near Dresden.
AV	Avery aviates an avocado (Avery Jessup from "30 Rock" flies home.from Korea with an avocado) [aviates=flies on a plane with] <Korea> In the show "30 Rock", Jack's girlfriend Avery gets kidnapped by the North Korean government. Avocados (origin: Mexico) happen to be hugely popular right now in Korea (South Korea specifically, but...) So I imagine Avery taking an avocado home with her when she gets released. Avery Jessup is played by Elizabeth Banks, who starred in "The 40-year-old Virgin" and other movies, and is also a film director. "Banks made her directorial film debut with Pitch Perfect 2 (2015), whose $69 million opening-weekend gross set a record for a first-time director. She also directed, wrote, produced, and starred in the action comedy film Charlie's Angels (2019)."
AW	Anwar awaits an award (Anwar Sadat awaits the Nobel Peace Prize) [award=blue ribbon; awaits=waits expectantly on other side of door from person delivering object] President of Egypt, Nobel Peace Prize for 1978 Camp David Accords with Israel. Assassinated 1981
AX	Axel axes an axle (motorcyclist Axel Pons gets rid of an axle) Motrcycles DO have an axle at the center of each wheel, but I think of an axle as the thing betwee the front (or rear) 2 wheels of a car, and motorcycles don't have those. Axel Pons is a motorcycle racer and (very hot) model from Spain. His father, Sito Pons, is also a motorcycle racer.
AY	Aya aye-aye's argyle (Aya Cash says okay to wearing an argyle sweater) {Aya in a chair as a guest on a talk show} Aya Cash (deadpan expression, brunette) grew up in SF. She had cool parents. Dad was a Buddhist priest. Mom had tats, wore leopard prints, and write erotic fiction and other books. Aya probably has days when she'd like to be normal and wear argyle sweaters. Aya plays a character called "Stormfront", who turns out to be a supervillain nazi, in the show "The Boys". And she is in a rom-com called "You're the Worst". In an interview about the show, she said that the network is allowed to show butt, "but they can't show Aya's butt" because it's in her contract not to do that. So there are some butts CGI'd in.
	
	B is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
BA	Babar balances a banana (Babar balances a banana on his trunk during his stint at the circus) [balances=balances on the forehead, as street performers do with bowling pins] {in a ring of a 3-ring circus, with Celeste nearby in a tutu}
BB	
BC	Bacon bacardi's bacon (Kevin Bacon pours bacardi rum on bacon as he cooks it) [bacardis=pours clear bacardi onto, or drinks bacardi in location] <Manhattan> Kevin Bacon (Footloose, Flatliners, the Bacon Brothers, and 10,000 other shows) is the gregarious actor os "Six degrees of Kevin Bacon" fame. (I myself am two degrees of Kevin Bacon). Rum candied bacon is a real thing. so maybe Kevin Bacon has made it. Rum is made from molasses, which comes from sugarcane. Bacardi rum has a really interesting history. It was founded in Cuba by a man named Bacardi. He used a special strain of yeast which he cultivated over the years, and he introduced charcoal filtering, and he added the rum in white oak barrels, and the result of many years of these innovations was the world's first clear, or "white", rum. His rum was also made rum a respectable society drink rather than being considered a low-brow drink. The bacardi was active in the Cuban revolution against Spain, with one or more members fighting and/or going to jail. When Cadteo took over in 1960 he seized all of Bacardi's Assets, but the Bacardi family had planned ahead and had begun moving their production overseas. Eventually they moved their headquarters to Bermuda and continue to maintain their empire. The bacardi family has been very active in U.S.-Cuban relations and copywriters laws, with the U.S. supporting Bacardi and other private enterprises. There is a bill called the Bacardi Act which denies trademark protection for Vuban companies that were seized by the Castro government. The WTO ruled this law illegal in 2001, but the US has stood by its guns and the law has held up in US courts despite Cuban and European challenges.
BD	Buddy bards a bird (Buddy Holly sings a tribute to Charlie Parker, who was nicknamed "bird") [bird=seagull; bards= stands next to object and sings "These are a few of my favorite things"] {onstage with his thick glasses, behind the mic with his guitar} I don't know if this is the kind of thing Buddy Holly would do, but he was born about 15 years after Parker, and certainly owes him a debt. Both died young, Parker at 34 and, three years later, Holly at 23.
BE	Bee beers beef (Aunt Bee cooks beef in a beer batter) [beef= hamburger; beers=pours beer on] i imagine Aunt Bee, from the Andy Griffith show, cooking with beer. Maybe that's why Andy is drunk in that one episode. By the way, Frances Bavier, who plays Aunt Bee, was quite the hottie in her early career!
BF	Biff buffs a buffalo (Biff Tannen runs away from a buffalo in his underwear) [buffs=interacts with (object) in the buff] <Hill Valley, Southern California> Biff Tannen is the "bad guy" in the "Back to the Future" movies. In the original AND in each sequel, he ends up with a pile of manure dumped on himself. So, in the theme of being embarrassed and humiliated, I imagine him running away, half-naked, from a pooping buffalo.
BG	Baggins Begs a Bug (Frodo Baggins begs Shelob the spider for mercy) [begs=asks for, like "Dude, can I eat that chicken wing?" ] This is regarding Frodo and Sam's encounter with the spider Shelob in Lord of the Rings. Frodo doesn't actually do any begging, but twice Frodo is attacked in Shelob's lair. He is paralyzed and goes into a deep sleep/coma, and Sam thinks he has died and so takes the ring and leaves him behind. Shelob was a descendant of Ungoliant, and lived on the border of Mordor with Sauron's consent. Sam stabbed her with Frodo's sword Sting.
BH	Bush brushes a Bosch (George H.W. Bush details a German-made dishwasher) [brushes=brushes with a floor-intended hand brush; Bosch=refrigerator] Bush is famous in Europe for being a decent person and a skillful negotiator during the breakup of the Soviet Union. He was particularly fond of Germany, and helped out with its re-unification. Bosch is a southwest German company that manufactures many things including dishwashers and other kitchen appliances. So I imagine Bush taking extra care with a Bosch to make it look just right.
BI	Biden bibs a bible (Joe Biden puts a protective covering on his family heirloom 1893 bible) [bibs=puts a bib on object] /BI-dn: if you swallow the second syllable in the usual way, the Bi stands out appropriately/ Biden has used the same, 2-inch thick bible at many swearing-in ceremonies: 7 times as a senator, twice as VP, and now as president. His late son Beau used it at a swearing-in ceremony too. Biden was on Steve Colbert's show recently: “ 'Why is your Bible bigger than mine? Do you have more Jesus than I do?' quipped Colbert, who like Biden is a practicing Catholic." Biden is only our second Catholic president.
BJ	Bojangles buckjumps a banjo (Bill "Bojangles" Robinson metaphorically rides a banjo as if it's a bucking bull, that is, he tap dances with great skill to the accompaniment of a banjo) [buckjumps=tries to stay on (object) as it bucks like a bull at a rodeo] <Richmond, Virginia> {Bojangles tap dancing down a gilded staircase} Bojangles was the most successful and well-paid black entertainer of the first half of the 20th century. He had a solo tap dance career, which was unheard of for a black dancer. He performed all through Europe. Later in his career, he became famous for dancing with Shirley Temple in a bunch of movies. "His signature routine was the Stair Dance, in which he would tap up and down a set of stairs in a rhythmically complex sequence of steps, a routine that he unsuccessfully attempted to patent. He is also credited with having popularized the word 'copacetic' through his repeated use of it in vaudeville and radio appearances." "On March 30, 1900, Robinson entered a buck-and-wing dance contest at the Bijou Theater in Brooklyn, New York, winning a gold medal and defeating Harry Swinton, star of the show In Old Kentucky and considered the best dancer of his day."
BK	Beck bakes a bike (Jeff Beck crashes a bicycle) [bakes=cooks or set on fire] {Beck onstage playing the Beatles' "A Day in the Life"} <England> Long before the car accident that changed the trajectory of his career, Jeff Beck, at age 10, had a serious accident where he was hit by a car while riding his bicycle. Jeff Beck (b. 1944) was rated 5th best guitarist of all time by Rolling Stone. He joined the Yardbirds after Eric Clapton left (Beck was fired from the group during a US tour for frequent no-shows and for his temper and perfectionism). He is English, and a vegetarian. You can see him earning his reputation as a guitarist on youtube, even at age 75. He is a master. He's in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame twice, once with the Yardbirds and once for his solo work. He's done a few Stevie Wonder covers that are popular. A lot of his work is instrumental music (no vocals). Beck is also a car enthusiast. And he's a mechanic, and does his own work on his large hot rod collection. And he's a reckless driver. He's been in two major car crashes, one of which put his career on hold for a couple years in the late '60's. More fun facts about cars: So, I always thought a hot rod was just any sports car, but it turns out hot rods are ~1930's cars that have been souped up and given enormous engines. It's a specific genre of car. The bucket-T, which gets its name from the Ford Model T and whose body shell looks like a big bucket, is one of the most famous. The Who has a song called "Bucket T" (Keith Moon drove one, I believe), and Jeff Beck has one.
BL	Bill burlaps a bullet (Bill Clinton goes duck hunting and carries bullets) In 1993, Bill Clinton went duck hunting in Maryland, having been invited by a legislator who opposed gun control. He did it to show that, despite having signed the Brady Bill, he did not oppose the NRA and hunting. He also wanted to show solidarity with the half of his constituents in his native Arkansas who had hunting licenses. He got flak from animal rights groups, and some flak from the NRA for posturing, but I think he made his point. (Try to ignore the fact that ducks are hunted with shot and shotguns, not bullets). Burlap is a woven fabric from vegetable fibers.
BM	Bam bams a bum (basketballer Bam Adebayo bumps into another lesser player) Edrice Femi "Bam" Adebayo plays basketball for the Miami Heat. "Adebayo was born in Newark, New Jersey to a Nigerian father and an African-American mother. As a child, he was given the nickname "Bam Bam" by his mother when, while watching The Flintstones at age one, he flipped over a coffee table in a manner similar to the show's character Bamm-Bamm Rubble. Adebayo is of African American and Yoruba descent."
BN	Ben bans a bunny (Benjamin Franklin bans a book about cute bunnies, in irony) Benjamin Franklin was an editor and publisher who famously stood AGAINST banning books. Here is a real Ben Franklin quote: “If all printers were determined not to print anything till they were sure it would offend nobody, there would be very little printed"
BO	Bo boos a boot (Bo Derek gets mad at Italy). At age 16, Bo Derek fell in love with director John Derek, and went off to Greece to film a movie with him. But he was married, to Linda Evan's, and the affair broke up the marriage. Bo and John were together until John's death 22 years later, but Bo still "can't forgive herself" for what she did to Linda. She has regret. Greece is close to Italy that I'm saying she boo's the boot, meaning really that she feels bad about what happened in Greece. btw Bo and John got married in Europe and lived there for two years till Bo was 18, because their actions, and marriage, were illegal in the state of California.
BP	Bopeep bops a biped (Little Bopeep gently bops an owl on the head with a sheep's tail) [biped=owl] In an 1875 extended-play rendition of the Bopeep nursery rhyme, this happens: The bell-whether sheep leads all of Bopeep's sheep astray while Bopeep sleeps. Bopeep runs into, then escapes, a witch while trying to find them. Bopeep finds an owl, who claims to have been a princess before the witch turned her into an owl. The owl shows Bopeep where the sheep are, and in return Bopeep waves one of the sheep's tails over the owl's head three times, which turns her back into a princess. (Bop: "to hit someone or something, especially in a friendly way")
	
	
BQ	Basquette bouquets a Basque (Lina Basquette gives an award to a Shepherd Dog) [bouquets=gives a bouquet to, or lays a bouquet in front of] <modern-day Silicon Valley, California> Basque shepherd dogs are small-to-medium sized, light gold colored dogs. They are native to the Basque Country. Lina Basquette, born Lena Baskette in San Mateo, CA. Her face reminds me of Betty Boop's. She had a long acting career beginning in the silent film era. Was briefly married to Sam Warner until his early death. At age 16, having studied ballet, she was recruited by the great Russian ballet dancer Anna Pavlova, but Basquette's mother insisted she turn it down in favor of a career as an American movie star. Later in life she became a well-known dog breeder and dog show judge.
BR	Burr buries a bear (Aaron Burr shoots Alexander Hamilton) Calling Hamilton a bear is not so far off. The polymath founding father, a military commander, attorney, treasurer, founder of the coast guard, who believed in a string central government and strong military. Bear works.
BS	Bessie blesses brass (Bessie Smith compliments the brass section) [brass=a trumpet; blesses=dips fingers in holy water and makes the sign of the cross] Bessie Smith sang "Trombone Cholly", about trombone player Charlie Green
BT	Bette bats a boat (Bette Midler verbally bashes a speedboat) Singer/actor Bette Midler created the New York Restoration Project, which included a boathouse and rowing opportunity for young people. The boathouse sustained damage from the wakes of speedboats, so Midler went to the NY City Council and complained about it. "The boathouse was the brainchild of Bette Midler, founder of NYRP, who saw the potential for creating a rowing hub on the Harlem River, and providing athletic and academic opportunities for under-served youth. The floating structure came to rest at its current location in 2004."
BU	Buford butanes a bugle (Buford from Phineas and Ferb works on a trumpet with a butane torch) [butanes=cuts with a butane torch] There was a lot of welding on that show. Maybe Buford got involved in it. (The characters went on a bus tour across America circa 2010, the "Platy-bus tour", to promote the Phineas and Ferb movie).
BV	Beverly bravos a beaver (Beverly Crusher gives a clean bill of health to a beaver) [bravos=gives a standing ovation to] {Beverly Crusher in the infirmary} For this one, I imagine ship's doctor Beverly Crusher (Star Trek) doing gynecology rounds.
BW	Bowie bewitches a bow (David Bowie shoots an imaginary bow and arrow) "The Archer" is a famous David Bowie poster. In the song "Station to Station" there is a line about darts. David Bowie would strike a pose of pulling back an imaginary arrow, which was the lighting guy's cue to kill the lights. A rock photographer snapped the famous shot right before the lights went out. It's a beautiful image.
BX	Bix boxes borax (Bix Beiderbecke fights with alcohol) [borax=a big bottle of laundry detergent] Borax, which contains boron, is a mineral which is used for many things including laundry detergent. Bix Beiderbecke was a jazz pianist, composer, and cornetist in the 1920's. Born in Davenport, Iowa, had a jazz career playing many cities in the midwest including Chicago, Cincinnati, Deteoit, Indianapolis. He died in New York, of alcoholism, at age 28. His parents were wealthy, his mother played the organ at a local church. Bix sat in with professional jazz bands while still a high school student. He dropped out of a couple of colleges. He was "a cornet player noted for an inventive lyrical approach and purity of tone, with such clarity of sound that one contemporary famously described it like 'shooting bullets at a bell' "
BY	Bly buys a bay (Robert Bly buys a horse) <St. Olaf College, Minnesota> Robert Bly has a couple poems about powerful horses.
	
	C is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
CA	Carla carafes cacao (chef Carla Hall pours chocolate from a carafe) [carafes=pours coffee on an object] Carla Hall, former runway model in Paris, now a youtube chef. Graduated from Brown, got an accounting job she hated, went to Paris and became a model. People said she looked so exotic, said she should make up an exotic origin story. She would say, No, I'm from Nashville, Tennessee, that's who I am. There are lots of videos of her pouring chocolate. Cacao: People use the word differently. According to some. cacao is the seed or seedpod before any processing has occured. Carafe: open-topped glass container, usually for pouring water or wine. Also a fancy term for a coffee pot.
CB	Cobb cables a carbine (Ty Cobb ties up a gun to prevent his mother from fatally shooting his father) [cables=wraps a steel-weave cable around object, then tows it] <Narrows, Georgia> A carbine is a small, lightweight rifle. Ty Cobb, nicknamed "the Georgia Peach". The Detroit Tigers (including Ty Cobb) lost the World Series to the the Chicago Cubs in 1907 AND 1908, but Ty Cobb was still a force to be reckoned with. Ty Cobb was an outfielder, from Georgia, his father was a state senator. His mother shot his father to death when Ty was about 20. Unclear whether she mistook him for an intruder, and/or whether he was trying to catch her having an affair. Ty Cobb invested in Coca Cola and other companies, and became a millionaire many times over. He donated a lot of money to college scholarships and hospitals. He once whipped his son with a whip when he was kicked out of Princeton College. His baseball records are too numerous to mention. Number of hits, number of runs, number of games played, etc. He held many of his records for half a century, and still holds some. He was listed as the 3rd best all-time player by a recent organization. When elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in the '30's, his percentage of the vote (94% ?) set a record until it was broken in 1992 by Tom Seaver.
CC	
CD	Codie caddies a cod (Codie Prevost boxes a cod) [caddy=carton, container, crate, OR caddies=acts as a golf assistant, for geographical] Atlantic and Pacific cod are both found in the northern parts of those oceans, i.e.surrounding Canada, where Codie Prevost lives. They can grow to be 6 feet. Codie Prevost, born in 1984, is an award winning country music singer and guitarist in Canada. He loves to go fishing in his native Saskatchewan. He prefers ice fishing, for pike and walleye. Saskatchewan is the third province from the west, above Montana and North Dakota.
CE	Celeste cements cereal (Restaurant owner Celeste nixes cereal from the menu) [cements=sticks in cement, like a mobster would stick a person in cement] {Celeste, parrot on shoulder, surrounded by palm fronds, takes an order at a table} Celeste's Island Cuisine is an outdoor restaurant located on an island of the Caribbean Sea just north of Honduras, which is next to Nicaragua in Central America. There are parrots there, that sit at your table and try to eat your food. Celeste and Milos, the owners, are from Oregon. Two Reviews: (1) "When you first arrive at the restaurant it feels as though you are among friends. Celeste herself greeted us along with a menagerie of parrots and sweet, well-behaved cats." (2) "But spend some time to get to know the great hosts, Celeste and Milos. They will tell you how they shucked it all and left Oregon to build their island dream, and some of the stories are great."
CF	Coffin cuffs coffee (Tris Coffin handcuffs himself to a coffeepot in an Old West saloon) [coffee=coffeepot; cuffs=handcuffs himself/herself to, in an effort to save. Can imagine police there trying to take the (object) or trying to take the store/location where you would find many of these (objects) ] {Coffin in a saloon, being salty, talking to a dame} I imagine Tris Coffin handcuffing himself to a coffeepot and saying to the dame who owns the saloon "They'll take away my coffee over my cold, dead body." Actor Tris Coffin was a leading man in the 1940's and '50's. He played a ton of Old West marshalls and gunmen in movies and TV. He is the nephew of poet Robert Coffin, and descendant of prominent Nantucket settler Tristram Coffin. Early descendants of Tristram Coffin seem to have made up most of the population of Nantucket Island. They became whalers, Quakers (through daughter Mary) and Boston Brahmins (an informal group of prominent New England families). Most Americans named Coffin are his descendants.
CG	Cougar cogs a Corgi (John Cougar Mellencamp hurls a small widget/doodad at a corgi dog) [cogs=throws a cog at] Mellencamp, a.k.a. John Cougar and Johnny Cougar, has a song lyric about "sucking on chili dogs" in his Americana anthem "Jack and Diane". Many people find it to be a weird lyric. I imagine taking it a step farther, that Mellencamp hates dogs. (Or maybe he does something weird to a chili dog with a piece of machinery).
CH	Cash cushions a cashew (Johnny Cash provides a seat for a fan). Someone on reddit suggested Johnny Cash fans be called "cashews". Good enough for me... So much to say about this guy. Born to poor farmers in Arkansas. Classic deep baritone voice. lifelong advocate for the poor the old. Advocate for Native Americans. Sang concerts in prisons. In 1965 his record sales beat out the Beatles. His older was killed in a table saw accident. He had a humor album "Everyone loves a nut". As an army radio operator in the 1950's, he was the first person in the west to hear the news that Stalin had died. He has been inducted into the Country Music, Rock and Roll, AND Gospel Music hall(s) of fame. He was known as "The Man in Black". Hr dressed in black because of it's darkness and sourness, like any modern PIB. Hosted his own TV show. Had very different stages of his career. Died in Tennessee.
CI	Cicero circles a cicada (Cicero draws a chalk line around a dead cicada) [circles=draws a chalk line around, as if it's some sort of crime scene] Can picture Cicero with a laurel leaf on his head. Cicero is the Roman writer who shaped the world. 3/4 of the Roman literature extant from the time of Cicero's adult life is from Cicero himself. He was a Roman statesman, lawyer, and scholar. He tried in vain to uphold republican principles during the crises that led to the establishment of the Roman Empire. "Cicero introduced into Latin the arguments of the chief schools of Hellenistic [Greek] philosophy and created a Latin philosophical vocabulary with neologisms such as evidentia, humanitas, qualitas, quantitas, and essentia, distinguishing himself as a translator and philosopher". He became an enemy of Mark Anthony, making speeches against him, and was eventually executed in 43 B.C. His name meant "chickpea".
CJ	Cujo conjures a crossjack (Willie Wolfe conjures a sailing vessel) [conjures=makes appear from thin air] A crossjack is one sail of a fully rigged ship. Cujo was the name taken by Willie Wilfe of the Symbionese Liberation Army, the group that kidnapped Patty Hearst in Berkeley. Cujo has the reputation of being a gentle person who became violent. Stephen King used the name for a Saint Bernard character who began as gentle but became a killer. Cujo died in a shootout and fire with police in LA along with about 7 other members of the group. Willie's father was an Anaestesiologist. Willie was the one who knew lots of people and brought them together. He had been at UC Berkeley and had visited prisons as part of an outreach program, and got to know DeFreze, who would form the SLA with Willie and others after he escaped from prison. I imagine Willie wishing for a sailboat during the 2-hour siege in which 9,000 bullets were fired back forth between the house and the police. After the shootout, Patty Hearst was still at large and the organization re-grouped. They killed two more people in bank robberies and were eventually all apprehended. One woman escaped to Minnesota and lived there for 20 years with a husband and three kids before being found. Many did prison time. Only one member of the SLA is still in prison, for murder. He became eligible for parole in 2019. Many of the group have served prison time.
CK	Cokie caulks a cake (Cokie Roberts puts frosting on a cake) <Washington D.C.> {Cokie walking the halls of Congress} Cokie Roberts and Martha Stewart did a video about the cooking of America's founding women, and they made Dolley Madison's 4-layer cake while they talked about history and politics. "Roberts, the daughter of former U.S. representatives, grew up walking the halls of Congress and absorbing the personalities, folkways and behind-the-scenes machinations of the nation's capital. She became a seasoned Washington insider who developed a distinctive voice as a reporter and commentator. In a 2017 interview with Kentucky Educational Television, Roberts reflected on her long career. 'It is such a privilege — you have a front seat to history," she said. "You do get used to it, and you shouldn't, because it is a very special thing to be able to be in the room ... when all kinds of special things are happening.' " She was given the nickname Cokie by her brother, Thomas, who had trouble pronouncing Corinne. Roberts and 3 other women were sometimes called, by co-workers, the Founding Mothers of NPR, or, more informally, the Fallopian Club.
CL	Collin collages a collie (Collin Bogle makes a dog collage) [collages= makes a collage out of many images the object] Lassie was a collie. They are a Scottish breed. Collin Bogle is a Seattle wildlife artist. He and his dad, Lee Bogle, are both professional artists. Collin makes a lot of prints of bears, big cats, owls, penguins. His is are is in studios and on T-shirts. He likes to play with light. He seems like a gentle, good person. "i grew up and still live in the Seattle area. I not only live in the midst of beautiful natural surroundings but amazing family and friends. My dad and I still get together often and talk shop, bouncing ideas off of each other."
CM	Cam camo's a camel (Cameron Diaz throws a camouflage covering over a camel as part of a spy movie she's acting in) [camo's=throws a camouflage sheet over to protect from the prying eyes of enemy aircraft]
CN	Connor canes a canon (John Connor uses low-tech weapons to fight Terminator AI machines) <Mojave Desert, Southeast California> John Connor is the kid in Terminator 2, who is destined to become a Messianic figure and lead the world in the war against AI machines. He has brown hair in an iconic asymmetric bowl cut, like Leonardo DiCaprio in "Titanic". Connor befriends Arnold Schwarzenegger's character, teaching him to say "Hasta la Vista, baby". His mom is Sarah Connor, who breaks out of a mental institution near the beginning of the movie.
CO	Coco cocoons a coconut (Coco Chanel designs a new bra) [cocoons=wraps in spiderweb, or silk fabric] In the early 1900's, Coco Chanel was a leader in revolutionizing the perception of women's bodies. During this era corsets went out and bras came in. Coco Chanel started as a seamstress and became a fashion mogul. Born Gabrielle Chanel, in France in 1883, she had a tough childhood, which she often misrepresented, no doubt out of shame. Her mom was a washerwoman and her dad peddled items on the street. At age 11 her mom died and her dad sent her and two sisters to a convent orphanage. (She later said her dad had "sailed to America to try his fortunes "). She became a singer and performer, but couldn't make it in that field. But she used those years to make a lot of connections. She eventually became a mistress to several very wealthy men and used that time and those connections to launch her fashion career. 3 fun facts: she may have collaborates with the Germans in WWII. And her birth certificate and official name was "Chasnel", a misspelling that she never changed because it would have involved admitting she was born in a poorhouse hospital. And she herself designed the interlocking CC logo that is still used today for the Chanel brand.
CP	Coppola cops a cap (Francis Ford Coppola swipes the name of a hat for his own last name) In Sicily, a coppola is a type of beret. The Coppola name is a trade name, meaning "hat-maker", like "Smith". Francis Ford Coppola is one of the great movie directors, most famously directing "The Godfather". His father was a flutist and composer. Francis played the tuba. In his early directing career he had big plans and dreams with George Lucas in San Francisco. They talked about making enough money to be rich, but not enough that someone would kidnap your kids. "We decided on $20 million. Now George has $6 billion". He now lives in Napa Valley, or maybe Italy, and owns vineyards and has a wine label. He has several children and nephews who are actors and directors. Nicolas Cage is his nephew (by blood, not just by marriage)
	
	
CQ	Cloquet conquers a conquistador (Ernest Cloquet wins a moral victory over the King of Iran) There were three physician Cloquets in France in the 1800's. Hippolyte, Jules (brothers), and Hippolyte's son Ernest. Hippolyte was a rhinologist (nose) and wrote a text on anatomy that went through 6 editions. Jules also published an anatomy book and drew most of the 1300 illustrations himself. Ernest spent his career in Iran. He was present during, and responded to, two outbreaks of cholera. He was the physician to two Shahs of Persia. After an assasination attempt on the second, Cloquet removed a bullet, then refused to attend the executions of the perpetrators. His assistant accidentally poured him a tincture of Spanish Fly instead of Brandy in 1855. When Cloquet realized the mistake, he apparently drank a second glass of it to reduce his time of suffering. That event appears to be what killed him, but it is unclear.
CR	Carrie carries a car (Carrie Fisher carries a car because she can't levitate it like Luke can, OR Carrie Fisher's star status aides the role of her hapless car in the Blues Brothers movie) <Los Angeles, CA> Carrie Fisher plays the role of Jake's jilted fiancee. Her car is a pink Pontiacs Grand Prix (which doesn't really need carrying). From her car she launches missiles at the pair, blows up a building with a detonator, and blows up a gas station with a flame thrower. She also fires at them with a machine gun in a culvert.
CS	Cassie cusses couscous (Queen Cassiopeia swears at Berber couscous) {Cassiopia in the heavens, in the chair Poseidon condemned her to sit in, wearing typical renaissance painters' garb, with a small hand mirror to look at herself in} Ancient Greeks mention Ethiopia in the Iliad and Odyssey, and there are African artifacts found in ancient Greek ruins from before that time. "Ethiopian" is a Greek word, meaning "burnt face", and applied to a vague group of people based on the Greeks limited map of the world. It seems to have applied to all the sub-Saharan Africans they knew about, meaning roughly Sudan and modern Ethiopia, and it may also have been used to describe people in India. Cassiopeia, a character in Greek myth, was the fictional Queen of Ethiopia (and the mother of Andromeda). Couscous has its origins with the Berbers of northern Africa. The Berbers are caucasians, lighter skinned than Arabs, and live in Morrocco, Tunisia, and thereabouts. They were more influential before Arabs (origin: Saudi Arabia) spread across the continent with Islam beginning in the 700's. "Cassie cussed couscous" refers to conflict between Arabs/Berbers with Sub-saharan Africans. Like with people everywhere, there's conflict. Most recently, there has been genocide in Darfur, a region of Sudan, which lies between Egypt and Ethiopia. Sudan is historically, ethnically, sub-saharan, but there are many Arabs who have come in from the north. Many who identify as Arab are very dark-skinne, so it's complicated and messy. But the current 16-year Darfur conflict seems to be a conflict between a ruling class of people who identify as Arab and farmers who identify as African.
CT	Cat cuts a cot (Cat Doucet hides money in a mattress) Cat Doucet, 1899 - 1976 was a colorful person in recent Louisiana history. He was a sheriff in St. Landry Parish, Louisiana for 20 years. He was an early white supporter of desegregation and black voting rights. On the flip side, he was probably crooked and allowed gambling and prostitution to flourish. He apparently got his name from the "cathouses" (brothels) he encouraged.
CU	Curufin curlicues a cucumber (Curufin draws a fake moustache on a cucumber) [curlicues=draws a fake moustache on, with a black sharpie] Curufin was sometimes known as "Curufin the Crafty"-- maybe just crafty enough to draw a fake moustache on a vegetable. Anyway, some background: Curufin was one of Feanor's 7 children, in the Tolkien mythology. (Both Feanor's AND Curufin's full name was Curufinwe). Curufin's son was Celebrimbor, who crafted the three Elven rings. When Melkor killed Feanor's father Finwe and stole the silmarils, Feanor and his 7 sons took a dreadful oath to get them back. The flight of the Noldor back to middle earth caused the first kinslaying at the ships. It caused the second kinslaying when Curufin and one brother tried to get the silmaril (that Beren stole) back from Dior, Thingol's heir. Curufin died with two of his brothers in that failed assault. The last two living brothers snuck into camp and stole the last two silmarils after the war of wrath, but the jewels seared their hands and one cast himself and his silmaril into a volcano while the other cast his silmaril into the sea.
CV	Calvin covers caviar (Calvin of "Calvin and Hobbes" puts a napkin --or cloche?-- over caviar) [covers=covers with cloche --klohsh-- food dome] <Cleveland, Ohio> Calvin famously doesn't like what his parents put in front of him to eat. It is unclear where the comic strip is set, but its creator, Bill Watterson, grew up in Ohio, went to Kenyon College, and tried Cincinnati for a couple years. He now lives in Cleveland.
CW	Cowan claws a cow (John Cowan claws a cow) [claws=scrapes with fingernails, in an attempt to attack] {John Cowan at Cowan Lake beach near the modern-day campsite, with beard, overalls, and prospectors hat, holding a brass compass and a chain (precursor to the measuring tape)} Cowan Lake, of Cowan Lake State Park, was named for Cowan Creek, dammed in 1950, which was named for an early Ohio Surveyor named John Cowan. I imagine him in mortal combat with a cow during one of his surveys.
CX	Cox coxes a coxcomb (Courteney Cox leads a buffoon) [coxes=rides in a boat with, as a coxswain; coxcomb= a 3-pronged jester's hat with one red prong] <Manhattan> Monica on Friends (played by Courteney Cox), leads Chandler, who is a buffoon. Coxes is a real word meaning "to act as a coxswain". The coxswain is the person at the stern of a rowing boat, steering and yelling "stroke, stroke...". As of 2017 rule changes, coxswains can be either gender in any boat. Coxcomb, originally cock's comb, is a rooster's red comb, and is applied to various things (eg. flowers) that have a red stripe. It means, among other things, a jester's hat (presumably with a stripe) and by extension a jester
CY	Cy cyphers a cyclops (Cy Young figures out how to pitch to a large baseball hitter) [cyphers=sits with pad and pencil and works out the details of] /cypher: sai-fr, like "decipher"/ <Boston> Cy Young played baseball 1890 - 1911, the last 8 years with the Boston Red Sox. He was a vegetarian. Born, and died, in Ohio. Reporters nicknamed him "Cyclone" for his fast pitch. The Cy Young award is now given annually to the best pitcher in each league. He grew up on the family farm and dropped out of school after 6th grade, and later went on to coach baseball players briefly at Harvard. He set many pitching records, some of which still stand 100 years later. He holds the record for most games pitched. He pitched into his 40's. He was the third (of 23 in history) pitcher to pitch a perfect game, and the 1st in the modern era of baseball. He threw the first pitch of the first modern World Series game, in 1903.
	
	D is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
DA	Dad dadoes daal (my dad takes a bite of daal) {My dad in the Indian restaurant on Shattuck in Berkeley, smiling, with a bowl of daal and a spoon} "Daal is as common in India as mashed potatoes are in Minnesota. The word means dried legume, as in lentil or pea. Or chickpea or fava bean. An edible seed that grows in a pod and is hulled and split. Daal is also the name for the thick purée, stew or soup made from these legumes". Dado: "a groove cut in the face of a board, into which the edge of another board is fixed"
DB	Debbie debriefs a dabber (Debbie debriefs a dabber) [debriefs=takes off the underwear that someone put on (object) at last night's wild party; dabber=street performer] {Debbie in her cheerleading outfit on a football field, with pom poms} Debbie taken loosely from "Debbie does Dallas". Basic plot: Debbie wins a chance to try out as cheerleader for a Texas football team based loosely on the Dallas Cowboys. She and her girlfriends get creative in raising the money to get them all to the audition. Interest fact: The stage name of the woman who played Debbie was "Bambi Woods". As was common with that type of movie, her real name was never known publicly. Bambi Woods, the person, vanished into the unknown sometime in the '80's. The two leading theories are that she died in a drug overdose, and that she's living a new life in Iowa and wants no connection with her old status.
DC	Draco decorates decaf (Draco Malfoy puts fancy decorations on a cup full of poison to mask his intentions) [decorates=puts a garland around; decaf=a restaurant coffee carafe with an orange top] Draco Malfoy is a villain in "Harry Potter". Decaf, in this sentence, is an allusion to any "off-brand", inferior drink.
DD	
DE	Dee deets a Deere (Dualla attacks a cyborg) [deere=deere tractor] {Dee in that miserable muddy shantytown on the planet with the cyborgs, with a big gun} Dualla, girlfriend of Billy, Battlestar Gallactica
DF	Duff diffs a duffle (The Duff --Mae Whitman's character Bianca-- compares different purses in an effort to reinvent herself) <Atlanta, Georgia> {Whitman in a department store, tired out, holding a duffel bag} Mae Whitman (rounded face, cute smile, pointy little chin) was a child actor and now an adult one. She plays Bianca (the "Duff") in the movie "The Duff". Also has roles in: Independence Day, Arrested Development, Good Girls. DUFF means "Designated ugly fat friend". In "The Duff", her character tries to change herself, then change the school culture.
DG	Doug digs a dugout (Douglass Smith spends a lot of time on the bench) [digs=digs out, with a shovel, something that he/she previously half-buried, perhaps in that other sentence; dugout=dugout canoe] <Boston> {Doug warming up near the dugout, with the words "RED SOX" across his chest, holding a baseball} Doug Smith, Boston Red Sox, 1912, played 1 year only. He was one of their pitchers, and was left-handed. In the 1912 season, the Red Sox captured their second World Series championship, and made a franchise record of wins-to-losses (.691) that still stands. Smith only played pitched one game with the Red Sox that year, but did well. There is speculation that he was sent back to the minors because he was African-American. He seems to have identified as white for most of his life, but his father was from a tribe that was Black/White/Native American.
DH	Dash dashes a dish (Dash from "The Incredibles" eats his meal quickly) [dashes = door-dashes; dish=white ceramic plate] {Dash in a clearing on Syndrome's tropical island, with his mask}
DI	Di dioramas a diode (Princess Diana makes a diorama of a diode to show that her cell phone was tapped) [dioramas=makes a diorama featuring object] {Diana on the grounds of her estate, near a hedge, with a stunning hat} Squidgygate is the term for a scandal of Lady Diana's phone conversation, and extramarital relationship, with Gilbey. Many think her phone was tapped. A diode is a little device that only allows electricity to flow in one direction. They got their start in the 1880's when a guy noticed put a molten piece of metal up to a mineral and noticed that electricity only flowed in one direction.
DJ	Deja D.J.'s dijon (Dej Loaf sings a song about living the high life with grey poupon) [deejays: deejays a club, hyping the (object), with a real-live (object) nearby; dijon=grey poupon dijon mustard] /dijon="dee-ZHAHN", Dej=dayzh/ {Dej Loaf on a bed with white sheets in the middle of a desert road, with a mic} Dej Loaf, born Deja Trimble in Detroit, is a rapper and hip hop artist who was huge in 2015. Her dad was killed when she was 4. She was a good student, and was in nursing school then went full time with her music career. There is a video where she and another artist buy their moms new Mercedes Benzes. So I imagine her living the high life and asking "Pardon me, but do you have any grey poupon?" (to which the answer, from the famous TV ads, is "Of course!") One of her big songs was "Try Me".
DK	Duke dunks dockers (Duke Ellington rejects a pair of casual pants) [dunks=submerges under water] {Ellington in a suit, on stage with his piano, with some sheet music} Duke Ellington was known for his refinement, including refined clothing. His career spanned 5 decades. He wrote over a thousand songs (my favorite: "Satin Doll"), and led one of the best bands around. He considered himself a composer of music "beyond category" and wrote in a broad category of American music. His parents had both been pianists. Ellington is one of the more amazing people who fill these 576 sentences.
DL	Dole dulls a dell (Bob Dole dims the screen of his Dell PC) [Dell=laptop; dulls=rubs with sandpaper] Bob Dole, Republican presidential candidate in the '90's.
DM	Demi demos a dime (Demi Moore demolishes a man's money) [demos=demolishes with a wrecking ball] Demi Moore has taken at least 2 rich men to the cleaners in divorces.
DN	Daniel dons denim (Daniel Radcliffe puts on blue Jean's after his nude scene in the play "Equine") [dons=puts on head; denim=blue jeans]
DO	Doodle doodles a door (William "Doodle" Armstrong draws a door, a portal to a better place) [door=unhinged door, ie. a slab of wood with a doorknob] The Scarlet Ibis (/Ahy-bis/), 1960 short story. Doodle's older sibling, "brother", tells the story of Doodle, who was born with a heart condition and is not interactive at first. When Doodle finally learns to crawl, he goes backwards, "like a doodle-bug" per Brother. Brother teaches him how to walk, and eventually to row, and he overdoes it in the end, pushing Doodle too far. Doodle dies at age 7, one week before school starts. I imagine doodle drawing a door to another realm or place. The author, James Hurst, studied to be a chemical engineer, then tried to be an opera singer, then settled in to a 34-year career as a banker. He wrote many stories in his spare time, but The Scarlet Ibis, which is considered a classic of American literature, was the only successful one.
DP	Depp dips dope (Johnny Depp dips marijuana in cough syrup) [dips=dips in chocolate sauce] Johnny Depp has had various addiction problems. I don't want to pin anything on him that he hasn't done, but in drug slang dipping can mean a variety of things. Tobacco chew is called dip. And marijuana gets dipped in a lot of things, including cough syrup and formaldehyde, to make special concoctions
	
	
DQ	Duquesne disqualifies a daiquiri (Marquis Duquesne disqualifies the Cuban daiquiri out of spite) /doo-KANE/ <France> Marquis Duquesne was a French general and also governor? Around 1858, 3 ships under his command were captured by British ships as they attempted to bring aid to a larger group of ships near the mouth of the Mediterranean that were being blockaded by the British. Also around 1858, Fort Duquesne in Pittsburgh ("the point") was captured by british forces and re-branded as Fort Pitt. Why did Duquesne disqualify a daiquiri? Unclear. But Cuba, where the daiquiri was invented, has been fought over by Spain and the US (not to mention Cubans), both enemies of France at one time or another, so Duquesne is probably just jealous not to be included... Duquesne University is named after him, and that vertical elevator thing. Anyway, the daiquiri, a mixture of rum, lime, and sugar, was purportedly invented by a guy named Cox in the Cuban mining town of Daiquiri around 1900. One modern twist on the daiquiri is to serve it frozen, as opposed to "on the rocks". Strawberry margaritas are red, can be frozen, and have a strawberry on the rim.
DR	Derek derries a derailleur (Derek from "The Good Place" abandons a bicycle or train and walks) [derries=walks out on (object) just because of a little damage] A "derry" is a derelict (abandoned) building, which sometimes will get taken over by ne'er-do-wells. I've decided to use "derry" as a verb. A derailleur is the device on a bicycle that moves the chain from one cog to the next when changing gears.
DS	Doss dissolves a dressing (Desmond Doss removes an old cloth dressing on the battlefield) [dissolves=pours acid over] Holy cow, talk about your heroes. Desmond Doss was awarded the Medal of Honor, in person by Harry Truman, for bravery during WWII. The catch? Doss was a seventh day Adventist and refused to carry a weapon. He was a conscientious objector, and became a medic. The descriptions of how he put himself in the line of enemy fire on occasion after occasion in order to get injured men to safety are unreal. At one point, while being carried off the field on a litttler, having himself been injured, he rolled off the litter so that the medics could go get another soldier worse off. At another point, he tended his own wounds, strapping a gun barrel to his arm as a splint, then waited 5 hours for help, to avoid calling a busy medic to his aid. He is credited with saving 50 - 100 men at one battle, by scrambling around under fire and carrying each person to a cliff edge to be lowered down to safety. He ran through bullets and grenades over and over again carrying no weapon, receiving multiple injuries, just to save people's lives.
DT	Dottie details a date (Dottie West harvests and cleans up a date) Man! When you're a star but not a superstar, and you die tragically, all the internet can do apparently is tell the same short version of your life story over and over. Getting any detail on Dottie West's life was nearly impossible. But ny watching several interviews with her and about her, I finally found something. She told an interviewer that she had had a backstage conversation with Dolly Parton about which one of them was "more country". (Dolly won, by knowing what kilt lettuce was). Dottie described herself as a real country girl. "I've picked the cotton and stripped the cane." She grew up in sorghum country (Warren county, Tennessee), she made sorghum syrup, sometimes called sorghum molasses, which is a traditional sweetener similar in reputation and history to molasses. Dates aren't sorghum, but they are sweet like sorghum, and I feel okay about this one! Anyway, Dottie West was one of the best-loved country singers of all time, singing duets regularly with Kenny Rogers, writing Coca Cola jingles, and winning Grammy awards. She got started in Tennessee, where she was mentored by the legendary Patsy Cline. Dottie had financial troubles in the last 5-10 years of her life, and had even her prize possessions and memorabilia repossessed. She was mortally injured in a car crash as an older friend recklessly drove her to a gig. (More about sorghum: They call it "sahgrum" down there, and they refer to their product as molasses. I watched a video of a guy who had a horse walking in a big circle, and attached to a large timber, to turn the sorghum squeezing machine. He does it for the public. He has a sign saying "No drinking, no foul language". The process, with its large pan and 6 hours of boiling and 227 degrees, looks just like a maple syrup process. Here was a guy who knew all about what he knew, but didn't have a cosmopolitan view on the difference between sorghum and backstrap molasses. Interesting).
DU	Duru duels dubnium (Duru Ahanotu competes with dubnium for attention, both being from Berkeley circa 1968) Duru and dubnium both come from Berkeley. Duru's brother Chidi became a professional football player for 8 years. Duru went to Stanford and is an engineer. Their father was from Nigeria, their mother from Alaska. Duru loved science as a kid, and was a contestant in a video game TV show in 8th grade, and played Q-bert. Dubnium has atomic number 105. Its most stable and hard to produce isotope has a half-life of one day. Scientists can only produce a few atoms at a time. Credit for its discovery has been given jointly to a Berkeley team and a Russian team, in 1968 (also Duru's possible birth year).
DV	Dave devours a dove (illustrator David Dudley becomes obsessed with the shape of birds)
DW	Dow draws dew (Charles Dow illustrates crystal clear financial information) [draws=draws, with the real model nearby] Charles Dow, the "Dow" in the Dow-Jones average, and the founder of the Wall Street Journal. Clear headed thinker, trusted by business people to keep their information confidential, and to report accurately without bias. He was a journalist first, and later a financial reporter. On a trip from the East Coadt to Colorado to report on silver mines, he got to talk to powerful financial people for four days, which was a turning point for him. The Dow Jones is a proxy for the health of the US economy. It measures the top 30 (?) companies in a weighted way. Dow co-created it in 1896, after the 1890's recession, at the age of 45. Dew forms when evening ground temperature falls in the evening. Dew is less likely to form when large plants or clouds are present, because both reflect back heat and keep the ground warmer. So, clear skies and open field of grass is the recipe. Dew has a reputation as being crystal clear, like diamonds, and washing the world in wet cleanliness.
DX	Dax detoxes a doxie (Jadzia Dax cleans out a computer viruses known as "the Pup") [detoxes=cleans] "Doxie" is a nickname for a dachshund (/DOCK-suhnd/), A.K.A. the wiener dog. Jadzia Dax (played by Terey Farrell) is a character from Star Trek's Deep Space Nine. In one episode, an AI virus infects the station. They come to understand its non-harmful motivations, and It comes to be known as "the pup", and Cisco tells O'Brien "You can keep the pup" at the end of the episode. Don't know if Dax is involved, but close enough...
DY	Dyson dyes a dyson (physicist Freeman Dyson chooses a color for a model of a dyson sphere he will present) [dyes=think Easter eggs; dyson=dyson vacuum cleaner] A dyson vacuum has that big, cool single roller ball that it rolls on. Freeman Dyson is in a class with Feynman, Oppenheimer, Einstein. Ridiculously smart. He worked on the project to use nuclear power for space travel, and also supported its scuttling because of the treaties establishing underground-only testing. He was born in Britain and moved to the US. He didn't believe that climate change was a threat. He never got a Nobel Prize, perhaps because he did too great a variety of things and didn't concentrate on one. In addition to various real contributions to science, he thought up the Dyson tree, and plant that could grow on a comet, and came up with a plan by which theoretical eternal beings could avoid the heat death of the universe by extending time infinitely, using a finite amount of energy. And a dyson sphere is a theoretical massive structure built around a star to harness its energy.
	
	E is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
EA	Eastman eats an ear (George Eastman of Kodak eats an ear of corn) [ear=ear of corn] In 2009-10, the Eastman House, part of the Eastman Museum which was endowed by George Eastman, planted 32 acres of corn in the center of historic downtown Los Angeles. The project was called "Not a Cornfield". The pics are really striking. I imagine George Eastman stopping by and eating an ear of corn. George Eastman (1854 - 1932) founded the Kodak company in the late 1800's. He developed the first roll of film (and presumably the camera that used it). This transformed picture taking and made movies possible. He is the only person on the Hollywood Walk of Fame to be honored by two stars instead of one. He was very devoted to his mother and cried all day every day after she died, despite his usual personal insistence on decorum. He was an avid pianist, and founded (endowed) the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, NY. He was considered to be a progressive leader for the times, and promoted Florence McAnaney to be head of the personnel department, making her one of the first women to hold an executive position in a major U.S. company.
EB	Ebenezer embraces ebony (Ebenezer Scrooge embraces Christmas, including its piano music) [ebony=a violin bow with any ebony frog; embraces=hugs, or cradles a small object like you would a baby] Piano keys, and parts of violins and other musical instruments, are often made of ebony. Ebony is a black hardwood, dense enough to sink in water. It is native to Sri Lanka, India, Africa, and Indonesia, and is part of the evergreen family.
EC	Echo echolocates an eclair (Echo the bat finds an eclair) [echolocates=finds by making a lot of high squeaking noises] <Mexico> "An éclair is an oblong pastry made with choux dough filled with a cream and topped with chocolate icing. The dough, which is the same as that used for profiterole, is typically piped into an oblong shape with a pastry bag and baked until it is crisp and hollow inside." "Echo" is a common name for fictional bats. This eclair-eating bat is a fictional cross between bats who echolocate insects and bats who do not echolocate but enjoy eating larger food such as fruit. Fruit bats (or "megabats") are old world bats living in a wide area from Africa to Australia. They do not echolocate. Some fruit bats have a wingspan of 5.6 feet. (Vampire bats are found in Mexico, Central America, and South America.)
ED	Ed edifies an edible (Ed Rosenthal edifies an edible while stoned) [edible=brownie; edifies=while drunk, says "Dude, you're called a (name of object)!" ] Ed Rosenthal is a California marijuana grower and advocate, who has had many legal battles, and one day of jail time. Mostly he edifies others about edibles, but I can easily imagine him speaking to an edible.
EE	
EF	Efron effigies an elf (Zac Efron makes a clay model of Will Ferrell) [effigies= makes a model of, using clay] "effigy" originally meant an image or sculpture, though it is now used only in a negative sense, usually something being burned in effigy. I imagine Zac Efron being a protege of Will Ferrell (who play an elf in the movie "Elf"). Screenwriters Andrew J. Cohen and Brendan O’Brien have created movies that each actor has been in, even if they've never acted together...,  Zac Efron (High School Musical, Dirty Grandpa, etc.) 
EG	Egger eggs an Eggo (Nora Egger puts a fried egg on top of an Eggo) [eggs=throws eggs at] Kellogg's Eggo waffles. They look like round waffles, a perfect base for a fried egg. Nora Egger is a foodie, and founded "Floral Elixirs"
EH	Escher etches an Escher (Dutch artist M.C. Escher creates one of his works) [etches=makes an etching of (object); escher=the staircase painting, called "Relativity"] Rembrandt was the first modern master etcher. You take a piece of metal (typically), put on a layer of wax, then etch away the wax with needles and other tools. Then you wash the whole thing in acid. The wax-protected part doesn't get eaten away, the rest does.
EI	Einstein eiderdowns an eightball (Albert Einstein accidentally puts an eiderdown cover over a pool table with its billiard balls still on it) [eiderdowns=covers with a down winter coat or blanket] "Einstein's memory was notoriously poor. He was unable to remember dates and could not remember his own phone number. As a student, one of his teachers claimed that he had a memory like a sieve." Eiderdown, or eider down, comes from the Common Eider Duck, a large migratory sea duck.
EJ	Eljer ejects an eljer (The Eljer cousins, lead by Elmer, throw out an unsuccessful model of toilet) [eljer=a toilet; ejects=ejects from a cockpit, or at least ejects using a springy spring seat] {Elmer, standing next to Jerome, in a bathroom showroom, with a 1904 moustache, in a business suit, holding a toilet plunger} "It all began in February 1904, when two enterprising young men, cousins Raymond Elmer Crane and Oscar Jerome Backus, joined forces – and names – and created what would one day become one of the most prominent and respected names in the plumbingware industry: Eljer."
EK	Ek ekes an elk (NFL running back Austin Ekeler just barely gets past a fast-running defensive player) [ekes=buys with his/her last dollar, picture the person grinning next to (object) and holding an empty wallet] Austin Ekeler likes to do air guitars after a touchdown, but he strums them in reverse, moving his arm in a big circle but strumming upwards. He was born in Lincoln, Nebraska and played football for a college team in Colorado. Ekeler started with the LA Chargers in 2017 and had a great rookie year. He is a well-spoken young gentleman. On youtube, he says he's doing his best, and if it's meant to be (a football career), it's meant to be. "If everything I've got is not enough, I'll move on to something else." ...And I found one football team whose fans have suggested they call themselves the Elks. It's in Edmonton, Alberta. "Animal names are always popular. Eagles would allow for a lot of soaring imagery, but I can’t see the EE going with a name that’s already being used in the NFL. There’s history dating back to the 1920s with Elks. You could definitely have some fun with this one. Anyone want to a buy a hat or a toque with big antlers on top?" ...and... "I think [Elks] would be a really good name for a football team,” said Matt Besko, director of wildlife policy for Alberta Environment and Parks. “They’re big, they’re fearless, strong, very resilient. They have amazing endurance. Because they’re a herd animal, they work well as a team.”
EL	Ella els an electric (Ella Fitzgerald rides a Chicago el train with an electric guitar) [els= rides in a train car with] {Ella on a train platform, waiting for a train, holding a guitar case} The "El" is short for "elevated" train, in Chicago. Fitzgeral was born in Virginia, moved to Yonkers, NY, and died in California. Her singing is simple, straightforward. -- I listened to her sing "Summertime " on youtube. So simple, understated, minimal musical instrumental accompaniment. And then she blasted out that one phrase, high and strong. An Ella quote: "Just don't give up trying to do what you really want to do. Where there is love and inspiration, I don't think you can go wrong."
EM	Emma emancipates eminems (Emma takes M&M's out of their bag) [emancipates=frees, or just removes from a bag or package] Emma Dudley, screenwriter and real-life M&M eater.
EN	Enola enamels an enigma (Enola Gay Tibbets puts a protective clear shellac coating over a souvenir enigma machine) [enamels=shellacs] {Enola at a carnival merry-go-round, wearing cat eye glasses, a dollar bill sticking out of her hip pocket} The Enola Gay was the Boeing aircraft that dropped the world's first atomic bomb, on Hiroshima. The pilot, Colonel Paul Tibbets (later a general), named the aircraft after his mother, Enola Gay Tibbets, and the name was written on its fuselage. You can find a picture of Enola here. https://www.geni.com/people/Enola-Tibbets/6000000002373298106 Enola and her husband Paul Tibbets Sr. began raising their son Paul in Illinois, then moved to Davenport, Iowa. Paul's dad was a successful businessman, a confection wholesaler. Later the family moved to Florida, and eventually back to Illinois. When he was 12, his mother paid a dollar at a carnival to let Paul get into an airplane. A few years later at the age of 12 he flew (as a passenger) in a plane at an event where the plane dropped a bunch of candy with little parachutes into a crowd. Paul's father wanted Paul to be a doctor, and Paul attended two years of med school at the University of Cincinnati. But he didn't take to it, and, having taken some private flying lessons, he joined the US Army Air Corps. His father thought it was too dangerous, but according to Paul's grandson, also a pilot and eventually a flying buddy of Paul's, Paul's mother Enola supported his decision. Paul went on many missions over Germany during WWII and his reputation grew. Paul was not just the pilot for the atomic bomb mission, he was in charge of the mission itself. He selected the flight crew and the aircraft. He and his team made modifications to the aircraft to hold the heavy bomb, and he selected the pilot-- himself. According to his grandson, when Paul told his mother he'd named the plane after her, she was honored. "My grandfather was very close to his mother. He described her as very kind, loving, and supportive. When he dropped out of college to pursue aviation, his mom encouraged him, while his father did not. Granddad knew the missions they were training for would be remembered throughout history, and he wanted his B-29 to have a meaningful and unique name. When he told his mom [about the name, after the bombing], he said her belly jiggled from laughter." Paul Tibbet continued his career in the military after the war, and all his life people asked him whether he had any regrets about dropping that bomb. (He did not). The more I read, the more i see that this was just another mission for that crew, albeit an important one. They had all dropped bombs on people before, including on civilians. They had all been shot at and had friends die. They felt they were doing the right thing, to end the war. The beginning of the nuclear age didn't happen on one day, and doesn't rest on one man's shoulders. As long as people insist on killing each other, there will be heroes on each side ready to die with ever-more advanced weaponry, and proud mothers to raise them for the task. At any rate... I imagine Enola, after the war, getting herself a German enigma machine as a trophy and shellacking it for posterity. The enigma machine was developed by Germany right after WWI, and was used by Germany to send secret codes during WWII. It looks like a fancy typewriter, and usually sits in a wooden box. It has a mechanism inside that converts certain letters to others (or something like that). If you know the code (which would be changes daily), you can decode a message on the other end. A team from Poland cracked an early version of Enigma before WWII, and members of this team were secretly smuggled out of Poland to England and helped the English team crack the code, which helped significantly in the war effort and may even have turned the tide.
EO	Eomer eosins an eohippus (Eomer bloodstains a horse) [eosins= to dye or paint something red] /ay-o-sin/ Eohippus means "dawn horse", an early horse of the eocene 50 million years ago. They were 12 inches tall (Fun fact: the winged beast that Eomer's sister Eowyn killed left a permanent stain on the ground). Eosin is a fluorescent red dye used to stain compounds for viewing under a microscope. It was named after a childhood friend of the inventor's, nicknamed "eos". So... Eomer is less important than Eowyn when it comes to killing horses, but the name "Eowyn" has a "y" in it which is confusing to me, so I need to with her brother Eomer. Eomer means "Horse-famous" in Old English, and is a name used for a character in Beowulf. Eomer killed lots of orcs and doubt bloodies lots of horses, even if he didn't kill with witch-king like his sister. (Eowyn killed the witch-king with the help of Merry). Eomer befriended Aragorn, and after Theoden's death (he was Eomer and Eowyn's adopted uncle), Eomer became king of Rohan. Eowyn and Eomer were descendants of Eorl, house of Rohan (horsemen). Eowyn means "horse-joy". (Eowyn is also known as The Lady of Rohan and The Lady of the Shield-Arm). Eo-cene, dawn (eo) of the new (cene). The new fauna/animals. The eocene was something like 40 million years ago. It was warm. Elephants, modern primates, modern sharks all got their start. Animals were dwarf size, presumably because of the warmth. except for one snake fossil, which is 42 feet long!
EP	Epominandas epipens an epaulet (Epominandas epipens a shoulder decoration instead of skin) [Epominandas=nickname "Eppie"; EpiPens=sticks a hypodermic needle into] /EH-puh-let/ Epaulet alternate spelling: epaulette. An epaulet is a shoulder decoration, worn by military officers, airline pilots, etc. Fancy ones have tassels. epi- Greek root: Upon, on top of, over
	
	
EQ	Equalizer_The equalizes an equine (Kevin Keller, the Equalizer, weighs the idea of dating a boy he meets at a school dance) [equine=horse; equalizes=puts onto a balance scale, can imagine a large one with a fancy set of cylindrical, gold, knobbed weights] Equine really CAN be a noun, meaning "horse". Kevin Keller meets "Moose" at a school dance, and compares him, to Veronica, with a horse. They eventually date for awhile. All the comic book Archie characters (who live in the town of Riverdale) have occassionally had superhero identities, including Archie, Veronica, etc. A newer character, Kevin, their first gay character, was given the identity "The Equalizer". He has a big equals sign on his chest. Casey Cott is the actor who plays Kevin in the Archie TV series. Cott is from Ohio, and studied drama at Carnegie Mellon. “Betty, you will not believe who just propositioned me in the bathroom. Give you a hint: His name may be Moose, but..." Balance scales have been used for several Thousand years. They appear next to Eqyptian hieroglyphics on tomb walls. On the inter-web, you can find images of 9-doot tall industrial scales that were used to weigh gold, and scales made from a highlighter, ruler, and jar lids that school children build. For weights, I usually picture a beveled-cube shaped hunk of cast iron, but there are also sets of beautiful gold weights in cases. Either way, they have a knob or hook at the top for lifting and/or hanging. "The most ancient relics of a weighing scale have been discovered in the Indus River valley, near present-day Pakistan, and date back to around 2,000 B.C."
ER	Erin erodes an eraser (Erin Brockovich uses up a pencil eraser with her dogged writing) [erodes=sprays with a hose until object corrodes; eraser=large, pink, rubber, self-contained rectangular eraser] Erin Brockovich is a California former legal assistant who won a large settlement against PG&E in 1993 for Chromium VI contamination in Hinckley, a town in Southern CA. Julia Roberts played the apparently foul-mouthed Brockovich in a 2000 movie called "Erin Brockovich". Brockovich has gone on to win other lawsuits, and to be a champion to many. She now has a TV show. Her name has become a verb: to "Erin Brockovich" something has become synonymous with investigating and then advocating for a cause without giving up.
ES	Esau ensembles an esophagus (Esau wears a top appropriate to her torso--esophagus) [ensembles=puts a colorful scarf around (object)] My family friend Esau, OR Isaac's son, Esau, from the Bible.
ET	Etta enters an etude (Etta James enters a song in a song-writing contest) [enters=enters object in a contest: picture the object with a blue ribbon on it, and the person beaming; etude=a piece of sheet music] Etta James, born "Jamesetta" in LA in 1938 to a single 14-year-old mom. (Taking "Etta" from Jamesetta makes her name kind of a girl-power symbol). Initially a gospel sensation in a local church. Career: 1950's, 60's, 70's. Gospel, jazz, R&B, Rock. Heartfelt renditions of meaningful songs came from her own difficult life, including "At last". Her voice: Big, direct, husky. Sang at the opening ceremony of 1984 Olympics. Final album in 2011.
EU	Euclid eulogizes a euphonium (Euclid writes an exposition on an ancient horn) [eulogizes=expounds on (object) while (object) lies nearby on its side, broken; euphonium: a large, valved brass instrument very similar to the baritone horn] {Euclid, wearing a toga and laurel leaves, in the great Alexandria library, with a salpinx horn, perhaps sitting in a public reading room with stacks of books nearby and a bunch of people wearing togas and laurel wreaths} Euclid is famous, not for being himself a groundbreaking mathematician, but for collecting, organizing and publishing the great mathematical discoveries of ancient Greece (and if you don't know the extent and depth of their knowledge even in those ancient times-- oh man, check it out). His book "The Elements" is second only to the Bible in its popularity through the centuries. The Greek philosopher Proclus also attributes a book called "The Elements of Music" to Euclid, but it is lost. Whatever was contained in that lost book, it presumably described various instruments of the day. The Greek instrument that was closest to modern-day horn was the salpinx, a straight wind instrument with a bell. So, our modern euphonium serves as its stand-in for this sentence.
EV	Evan evicts evil (Evan throws a burnt roast out of the house) [system: evil refers to the burnt piece of charcoal. the last remnant of evil, at the end of Time Bandits, and/or the burnt roast that the boy's parents think it is] Evan Dawley, the gourmet, would naturally cast out anything as repulsive as a burnt roast. Kevin, the star of Time Bandits, tells "Mom! Dad! Don't touch it! It's evil!", at which point of course they both touch it and are blown up. The chunk of coal is the last remnant of "Evil", who was pursuing Kevin and the dwarves through time and who the Supreme Being burns to a crisp.
EW	Ewing ewers a ewe (Gary Ewing pours water into a sheep trough) [ewers=pours water onto, or serves water to] /YOO-ing, YOO -ers, YOO/ A ewer is a vase-shaped pitcher or jug. A ewe is a female sheep. Dallas character Gary Ewing. And the star of the spinoff Knots Landing. Brothers: J.R. (eldest, oil tycoon), Bobby (youngest). Gary was the black SHEEP of the family. He was his momma's favorite, and preferred ranching to oil. Thus "ewe". Family grew up on Southfork Ranch, mom's family ranch. Father Jock married mom then they raised family there.
EX	Exeter exhumes an exotic (Mrs. Exeter re-pots a cactus) [exhumes=digs out of the dirt; exotic=small bulb cactus with spikes] An exotic is a plant that is not local. Many people grow exotics in their homes and gardens. Mrs. Exeter was, in the 1940's, a recurring character in Vogue. She modelled older women's clothing and styles. She was a "woman of a certain age", a distinguished, sharp looking lady. I imagine Mrs. Exeter being finicky and exacting about her out-of-town invasive plants.
EY	Eeyore eyes an eyrie (Eeyore spies a new home for owl) [eyes=looks distrustfully at] In one of the very last stories, Eeyore does a silly thing which is turned heroic by the graciousness of Piglet and the friendship between Piglet and pooh. He tromps off into the woods and finds a new "wolery"; not knowing that it's Piglet's current house. An eyrie is an eagle's nest, but close enough. Eyrie: the nest of an eagle or other bird of prey , built in a high inaccessible place (tree or cliff). Also, ANY remote but commanding place
	
	F is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
FA	Faraday fanfares falafel (physicist Michael Faraday celebrates the inventors of algebra) [fanfares=plays a trumpet upon seeing object] Michael Faraday, 1791 - 1867, was an English physicist. He achieved great renown in his own day, but had a very limited education. His knowledge of mathematics did not even include trigonometry. But he was a good experimentalist and communicated his ideas clearly. Maxwell used his ideas when formulating Maxwell's Equations. Faraday discovered relationships between electricity, magnetism, and light. He is responsible for the electric motor and the battery. (He also discovered benzene). Falafel, like algebra, comes from the Arab world. This deep-fried food probably originated in Egypt, using favas beans, then migrated east to the Levant where they used chickpeas. A store's facade is a wall that goes up above the first floor making the store look bigger.
FB	Fabio flambe's a fishbowl (Fabio sets the mood for a romantic evening with beautiful decor) [flambe's=fires in a kiln to add a layer of protective, colorful flambe ceramic glaze] Flambe is a cooking style involving flaming alcohol in a pan, but it is also a high-heat kiln firing technique used to put colorful glazes on ceramics. Fabio Lanzoni, Italian-American model and spokesperson: “ 'I want to bring more lawv and romance into the society,' says Fabio, who sees himself not as a male model or a role model but as a simple man 'selling beautiful fantasy to the world.' ” He was long-standing spokesperson for "I can't believe it's not Butter". And he was a spokesman for Old Spice before funny, staged online challenge from Isaiah Moustafa. Appears on the cover of many romance novels and at least one video game. 6'3", long blonde hair, hunk. Spokesman for cancer research. Sister died of cancer. His face once got bloodied by a flying goose while he was riding a roller coaster.
FC	Face foci's feces (Faceman shines sh**, by carefully burning it using a magnifying glass) [foci's="focuses" the suns light on an object with a magnifying glass] Faceman, or just "Face", is a character from "The A-Team". He is the fast talker. Other chars: Hannibal (leader), B.A. (Bad Attitude, -Mr. T-, mechanic and master-at-arms), Murdoch (insane pilot). Face is the con artist and ladies man. He can get them any equipment they need for a job. Played by Dirk Benedict.
FD	Fudd fondles a fiddle (Elmer Fudd touches his violin) Elmer Fudd might never hold a violin, but he sings Wagner accompanied by violins and performs onstage with lots of violins visible in the orchestra, sometimes conducted by Bugs Bunny.
FE	Feenie feels feet (Feenie Ziner feels the ache in her feet) [feels=touches or moves the hands over ] Feenie Ziner, my new favorite person and author. She traveled to a cabin in remote British Columbia to seek out her son, a journey that could hurt anyone's feet. Born in the 1920's, she, like Allen Ginsberg, was a teacher to the hippies. Full name Florence Ziner. After writing a book about the pilgrims from the English perspective, she decided to write a book about Squanto, the last member of his tribe, who lives in England for awhile due to kidnapping and later helped the pilgrims. It remains the only scholarly work about him, and attempts to give his perspective rather than the European. Her first book, which sold half a million copies, taught kids how to tell time. She became the Children's book reviewer for the New York Times for awhile. Then she taught for 20 years at U. Connecticut. Het book, "Within this Wilderness", is the story of her relationship with her son, who wanted to escape civilization and moved to a remote part of B.C. She went to visit him. She wrote "In time, everyone who undertakes a great moral journey must confront the fact that the Devil is always the stowaway."
FF	
FG	Figaro fogs a fig (Figaro breathes on a fig while singing) Does figaro like gigs? Who knows, but there could be some food props onstage. The Marriage of Figaro, Mozart and Da Pontw. (Their other collaborations: Don Giovanni and Cosi fan Tutte. The story was originally too political to get imperial approval. it was changed a lot. I picture Willie the Whale singing "Figaro". The plot is incredibly complex and absurd, so here's wikipedia's synopsis: "It tells how the servants Figaro and Susanna succeed in getting married, foiling the efforts of their philandering employer Count Almaviva to seduce Susanna and teaching him a lesson in fidelity. "
FH	Fisher fashions a fish (Carrie Fisher makes a bikini with a fish theme) [fashion: to create] <Los Angeles, CA> Princess Leia's famous metal bikini has a snake detail in it. Not a fish, but close enough. And she didn't fashion it, George Lucas did, but... She had to sit stiffly in it, because George Lucas didn't want any folds of skin or creases. (In Friends, Rachel wears a copy of the outfit, and buns, to satisfy a fantasy of Ross's). fashion def. : to make, to give a particular shape or form to. The cavemen fashioned tools from stones. To construct or create something usually with careful attention or by the use of imagination and ingenuity. Bonus fish reference for Carrie Fisher. This is a quote from the filming her last Star Wars movie: "Unfortunately, I don't want to look my age. I would do everything but have serious surgery for it... I look like a weird fish with gills."
FI	Fifi fistfights a fiat (Fifi the poodle tussles with a car) Fifi is Snoopy's love interest in the comic strip "Peanuts". She is only alluded to in the original strips, but she appears in a 1980 cartoon short, and she had a prominent role in the most recent Peanuts movie. Fiat is an Italian car manufacturer founded in 1899. At times, they have been the largest car manufacture in Europe and the third largest in the world. Members of the founding family were kicked out of the Fiat company for 20 years after WWII for sympathising with Mussolini
FJ	Fujita forejudges a flapjack (Tokuaki Fujita takes a dim view of pancakes) Tokuaki Fujita and his wife own the Mt. Fuji Japanese Steakhouse (New York and New Jersey). He was born in Japan, and worked his way up from dishwasher to current successful restaurant owner. I don't REALLY know his opinion of pancakes...
FK	Focker flicks a fork (Gaylord Focker flicks a fork at the dinner table out of nervousness) [flicks=flicks with fingers OR swipes away with the back of the hand, in the manner of a person wearing a robotic exoskeleton "AMP" suit] <Long Island> Gaylord ("Greg") Focker, from the movie "Meet the Parents", is played by Ben Stiller. He is awkward around his father-in-law-to-be, played by Robert DeNiro, and might flick a fork or do something else random at the dinner table.
FL	Fuller fells a feline (Alfred Fuller takes the place of a cat in a housewife's heart) Fuller was famous for his salesmanship. He would knock on people's doors, and they would invite him into their homes, and he would listen to their needs, and provide them with useful products. Alfred Fuller, born on a farm in Nova Scotia, moved to Boston as a youth and was fired from several jobs before finding his calling as a door-to-door mop and brush salesman. He had an eye for sales, making a personal connection with the people he visited. He tracked their need for brushes and realized there was a market for different types of brushes. He invested $375.00 in his first brush making machine. He also moved to Hartford, CT which had a lot of wealthy homes in need of brushing. He became an icon in the ensuing decades. At one point, his Hartford factory was the largest factory in the WORLD. He had a team of thousands of salespeople. "The fuller brush man" was so iconic that it appeared in Disney movies (the three little pigs), many cartoon strips, and a couple of live action movies ("The Filler Brush Man", with Red Skelton). There were 40 million fuller brushes in overseas service during WWII. Alfred Fuller liked to quote the aphorism "American ends with 'I can' "
FM	Fimmel frames a femur (Travis Fimmel puts a picture of his broken leg into a picture frame) [frame=hang on wall in picture frame ] Fimmel famously broke his leg before his first season of Australian Rules Football, ending any chance of a football career. I picture him framing the leg, as a reminder of how he got started on becoming a world-famous actor. Travis Fimmel, Australian model and actor, sometimes considered the hottest man on Earth. Played Ragnar on a show called Vikings. Grew up on a 5000 acre dairy farm. In interview after interview, he is a soft spoken, demure, egoless gentle person. It is almost impossible to reconcile his personality with the characters he plays.
FN	Finn fans a fin (Finn fans out his orbak-mounted troop as they ride across a star destroyer) [fans= waves hand to move air, or installs an electric fan; fin=shark, or fin] Yeah! That could really happen! Orbaks are the horse-like creatures in Star Wars IX. Finn and his small band ride them across the top surface of a destroyer. And if you look at the shape of those things in the scene, those ships look a LOT like fins!
FO	Foote foots food (Chaplain John Weir Foote gives up good food, safety and comfort to serve the captured soldiers in his unit) [foots=kicks; food=an elaborate 4-course meal with lots of dishes] {John Foote, with a Cross necklace, on a beach battlefield in Northern France} Someone at Wikipedia likes John Foote. His entry is succinct and powerful. Here is an excerpt: "John Weir Foote (1904 – 1988) was a Canadian military chaplain and politician. He received the Victoria Cross for his actions during the Dieppe Raid [a failure for the Allies] in 1942. Foote is the only Canadian chaplain to be awarded the Victoria Cross. After the war he was elected to the Legislative Assembly of Ontario and served as a Progressive Conservative member from 1948 to 1959. He served as a cabinet minister in the government of Leslie Frost... Foote was 38 years old and serving as the padre of the RHLI, when he performed the following deed during the Dieppe Raid for which he was awarded the Victoria Cross: On August 19, 1942 at Dieppe, France, Captain Foote coolly and calmly during the eight hours of the battle walked about collecting the wounded and carry them to safety. His gallant actions saved many lives and inspired those around him by his example. At the end of this gruelling time he climbed from the landing craft that was to have taken him to safety and deliberately walked into the German position in order to be taken prisoner so that he could be of help to those men who would be in captivity until May 5, 1945."
FP	Flipper flips a frap (Flipper the dolphin flips a frappuccino on his nose) Flipper, a bottlenose dolphin, was " the aquatic Lassie". There was a movie in 1963, then a TV show from 1964 - 1967. There were two brothers who had a pet dolphin. Their dad was a warden at a marine preserve, in Key Largo. Flipper was played primarily by two female dolphins. Females are less aggressive, and don't as often have scars on their skin from fights with other dolphins. "The famous 'voice' of Flipper was actually the doctored song of a kookaburra bird." (!)
	
	
FQ	Farquaad fiques a forequarter (King Farquaad ties up a package of meat) [fiques=ties up]. I imagine Farquaad going out in a hunting party. Fique is a new world plant and natural fiber. It was widely used as a fiber even until the 1970's when it was overtaken by polypropylene. The plant has a long straight thick stalk, which promptly gives way to a bunch of long narrow leaves at the top, a little like a palm tree but the leaves point up and to the sides, not drooping. European colonists spread fique all over the world, including to India. Today, fique is used in Colombian handicrafts. Farquaad is the 4'2" antagonist from Shrek who banishes all the fairy tale creatures to the swamp, delivers an edict titled with the letter 'f', and is eaten by the dragon at the end. He dresses in dark red, has an absurdly strong chin, and sports a five o'clock shadow. A forequarter is a cut of lamb or beef. An animal has a right and left forequarter. It includes the front leg and shoulder, basically the front of the animal.
FR	Farrah ferries a ferret (Farrah Fawcett ships the image of a ferret to T-shirt stores all over the world, via the famous "ferret fawcett" T-shirt) <Corpus Christi, Gulf Coast of Texas> Farrah Fawcett got her start with Charlie's Angels. There is an iconic red bathing suit shot of her that has adorned the walls of many dorm rooms. Someone made an alt "ferret fawcette" t-shirt with a ferret in a swimsuit in the same pose. A ferret is a domesticated animal related to the weasel. They are also sometimes found in dorm rooms.
FS	Foss fresses a fossil (Thea Foss gobbles fossil-fuel to power her fleet) "Fress", Yiddish and German origin (fressen): To gobble up food; to gorge oneself. To eat like an animal. "Fress Like A Fullback". Thea Foss is the founder of Foss Maritime, giant of West Coast shipping. In 1889, Foss rented a rowboat and made good money transporting things around. She and her husband soon bought more boats. By the time she died in 1927 they had a fleet of gas-powered tugboats and other boats. The Foss Energizer was one of the boats I saw all the time in Seattle. Speed, the guy whose house I built, was a captain for a Foss boat. Many of Foss's boats are named after Foss family members.
FT	Fats flattens a fret (Fats Domino makes a blue note on a guitar) [flattens=squashes; fret=can picture fretboard] Types of frets: fat frets, scalloped frets, fan frets, string frets. Fats Domino was a pianist, a pioneer of Rock and Roll. He sold 65 million records. "The Domino family was of French Creole background, and Louisiana Creole was his first language." For the last 20 years of his life, he did not leave the Louisiana area, citing among other things that he couldn't find good food anywhere else. "Even after his success he continued to live in his old neighborhood, the Lower Ninth Ward, until after Hurricane Katrina, when he moved to a suburb of New Orleans." He was thought to have died in Hurricane Katrina, but it turned out he had been rescued by a Coast Guard helicopter. "In 1998, President Bill Clinton awarded him the National Medal of Arts. Domino declined an invitation to perform at the White House." "His 1949 release "The Fat Man" is widely regarded as the first million-selling rock and roll record. Two of his most famous songs are "Ain't That A Shame" and "Blueberry Hill" Elvis Presley once told reporters, if you want to know who the 'King' is, Fats Domino is the king. 
FU	Fusion fuels a fungus (Supervillain Fusion fools people into thinking a mushroom is flammable and about to explode) Fusion is a rival of spiderman. Jeremy Markley, a nine-year old, fell to his death pretending to be spiderman, and his dad, intent on revenge, became Fusion. Fusion's power is to persuade people of things. He stood on a rooftop and persuaded police that a mannequin he held was a hostage, persuaded a helicopter pilot that his craft had already exploded, etc. He dropped the mannequin, which spiderman caught in a web, and it explodes, killing 300 people. Fusion persuaded spiderman that spiderman neck had been broken from a blow, and spiderman was captured and taken back to Fusion's evil lair, where Fusion told him the bomb was programmed only to go off in midair, so spiderman was responsible for the explosion
FV	Fever favors a fiver (Dr. Fever accepts a TV gig for extra money) [favors=gives special regard to, puts a wreath onto] Dr. Johnny Fever, WKRP's Rock 'n' Roll disc jockey, accepts a TV side gig, but discovers it is disco at the last minute. WKRP: Dr. Fever, Andy Travis, Venus, Les, Jennifer (Loni Anderson). Famous scenes: Dr. Fever scratches a classical music record as he changes the station format. Les releases turkeys from a helicopter)
FW	Finwe firewalls a flower (Finwe protects his son's silmarils with his life) [firewalls=builds a fireproof wall around; flower=orchid] There is Finwe, no doubt sword drawn, standing at the gates of his fortress as Melkor approaches. Finwe, father of Feanor by his first marriage, and Fingolfin and Finarfin by his second marriage, was ruler of the Noldor. He was the only elf willing to confront Melkor at the gate of his (Finwe's) fortress, and died at Melkors's hand, the first blood shed in Valinor, after which Melkor stole the silmarils. Finwe, Ingwe, and Elwe (Thingol) were the first three elves to visit Valinor. Finwe and Elwe were close friends. Elwe tried to hurry the Sindar (later called the grey elves) to cross the ocean, but they were a large group, and slow. Elwe wandered into the forest, met the Maia Melian, and was entranced for 200 years, after which he was known as Thingol (of Doriath).
FX	Fox faxes a fox (Michael J. Fox's character Marty faxes a photo of his girlfriend) [faxes=takes a picture of (object) and faxes it] Michael J. Fox plays the character "Marty McFly" in the movie "Back to the Future". He brings a "Save the Clock" flyer back in time, from 1985 to 1955. The flyer has a note from his girlfriend Jennifer: her Grandma's phone number and "I love you". He also takes some photos back in time, maybe of her. He doesn't actually fax anything, but the flyer is a photocopy, and he does show it to Doc... Fun fact, the flyer has two continuity errors in the filming. The picture of the supposedly functional clock tower already has the broken ledge, and Jennifer's note on the back is visible at one point before she has written it.
FY	Fey fykes a fryer (Tina Fey takes a roasted chicken from Chicago's Athenian Room and brings it to New York with her in a net.) [fykes=carries over the shoulder in a fyke net; fryer=small chicken] {Tina Fey as Lemon, near the staff buffet table in the 30 Rock studio} A fyke is a long cylindrical net, held open by several hoops, for catching fish. A fryer is a small young chicken. Tina Fey, while living on New York, once gave a big shout-out to the Athenian Room, a restaurant in Chicago that she had frequented when she lived there. Her favorite was the roasted chicken, and she inspired mobs of Chicagoans to go to the restaurant and try it out. "[Owner Alex] Polakis... is very grateful for Fey's glowing endorsement, and though he has not seen '30 Rock,' or any of Fey's movies--he does remember her from her Second City days. 'I remember her when she was young... She's still young, don't get me wrong. But she was not famous.' "
	
	G is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
GA	Gaga garages a gamba (Lady Gaga puts her viola da gamba in the garage) [garages= puts in a garage OR puts garages all around (geographical location)] Lady Gaga plays piano mostly. And a little guitar. Who's to say she doesn't have a gamba?
GB	Gabriel gobbles gumbo (Gabriel eats leftover Cajun soup at a family gathering) {Gabriel with fork, in his kitchen, day after Thanksgiving} Gumbo is a style of soup from Louisiana, and the official state cuisine. It features a thick base, meat (shrimp and/or chicken and/or ...) and the Cajun/Creole "holy trinity" ― celery, bell peppers, and onions.
GC	Grace graces groceries (Grace Kelly gives thanks for groceries) [graces=says grace over, gives thanks to, imagine a group of people around the object, and the person says a prayer of thanks and makes the sign of the cross; groceries=a big paper bag of groceries] {Grace Kelly, with scrapple wrapped in deli paper, at a Philadelphia deli counter} Grace Kelly had strong, powerful eyes and a slight upturned smile at the corners of her lips. Grace Kelly still remembered the little things, even in her over-size life. Read on... Grace Kelly, 1929 - 1982. Born to an affluent family in Philadelphia, father had a construction business and was an international sculling champion. Kelly starred in a number of movies in her early movies, working with Hitchcock, Cary Grant, James Stewart, etc. Then at age 26, she retired from acting to marry Rainier III, Prince of Monaco, and became Princess Grace of Monaco. It was the "Wedding of the Century". She died in a car crash at age 54. She visited her family in Philly every year, from Monaco: "When she was home, I remember we went to the grocery store, and of course she wanted to make sure we got some Philadelphia scrapple," Le Vine said. “She said she really wanted to give the palace chef an understanding of it, so she was going to tell him it was a certain special pÃ¢tÃ©." Monaco is on the French Riviera and is surrounded entirely by France (and on one side by the Mediterranean). French is the official language. And scrapple is some kind of pig product unique to Pennsylvania.
GD	God gilds Godiva (God protects Godiva's virtue by giving her a thin metaphorical layer of gold covering) [godiva=a chocolate from a box of chocolates]
GE	Gere geeks a gear (Richard Gere understands and maintains his Triumph 650 motorcycle) [gear=bicycle gearwheel or cogwheel; geeks=is an expert in and removes some dirt from] Almost all motorcycles are manuals, so shifting gears is part of riding. Richard Gere is a famous motorcycle guy, so I'm sure he has geeked out over gears. Since he is an accomplished pianist, actor, a Zen Buddhist, tap dancer, and who knows what else, I'll bet he takes his motorcycles pretty seriously. Gere famously rode a Triumph Bonneville 750 motorcycle in "An Officer and a Gentleman", and a few years later rode a different model Triumph in another movie. The first motorcycle he owned in real life was a Triumph too. He was in England for the first time, playing Danny in a production of Grease, and he had a little per diem money, "the first time I had any money." He walked into the Triumph factory, in Chichester near where he was working, and came out with a Triumph 650. Gere's first movie was American Gigolo. He was a sex symbol in the 70's, 80's, 90's and beyond. He also composed and performed piano for some of the music in "Pretry Woman." He is an advocate for Tibetan independance. He spends a lot of time in that part of the world, and has denounced China publicly many times (he is banned from traveling there), leading apparently to fewer Hollywood acting roles (which has caused him to have success in independent films). He spent 5-6 years studying Zen Buddhism in his 20's (the 1970's) , deluding the same period he was landing larger and larger acting roles culminating in his first breakout movies. (Also, he is known for having dated a lot of women).
GF	Groff gaffs a griffin (Jonathan Groff captures a griffin) There are many medieval depictions of English knights in shining armor battling griffins. Jonathan Groff plays King George in the musical Hamilton. He is also the voice of two of the characters in the movie Frozen, and has done many other things. When Hamilton first opened, Groff was the production's one already-famous actor, their superstar. A gaff is a hook, used by fishermen and whalers, to bring a fish into the boat. A griffin is a mythical beast from the pre-ancient world, lion's body with eagle's head. I think they got started in Iraq, then moved to Greece and other places. (The hippogriff from Harry Potter is a modern relative)
GG	-----
GH	Ghosh gashes a gumshoe (Aishe Ghosh gets her shoe damaged in an attack on students) [gashes=cuts, leaving a deep cleavage or gash; gumshoe=a shoe, galoshes, rubber boots] {Aisha Ghosh, with microphone, speaking defiantly to a crowd of supporters in New Delhi} btw I don't mean to make light of a serious situation here. So, Aishe Ghosh is a student leader and scholar at Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi, India. (The university is named after Nehru, India's first Prime Minister). In January 2020 she and many students were attacked by a mob of masked men with pipes and axes. For three hours the attack continued, with apparently little or no resistance from campus police. The attack is presumed to have been carried out by a group of Hindu Nationalists, a right-wing group. The next day, Ghosh said that she could identify one of the men if she saw him again, because he wasn't wearing a mask. This is where "gumshoe" comes in. Gumshoes are rubber boots, also called golashes, and private detectives are sometimes called gumshoes (and it can be a verb, to investigate). So, since Ghosh is on the prowl for her attackers, I imagine she was wearing gumshoes, even on the night of the attack, and that the shoes were damaged in the attack. More on Aishe Ghosh: Ghosh is a common name in India. Aisha Ghosh has become a symbol for progressive young people after she and other peaceful college protesters were beaten by a mob with iron rods. A picture of her with a bleeding gash on her forehead was widely distributed, as was a picture of her two days later, bandaged and resolute. She is a powerful speaker.
GI	Gigi gingerbreads a giant (Gigi Barth feeds a giant panda at the SF zoo) [giant=giant panda; gingerbreads=builds a big gingerbread house around, with candy canes etc.] {Gigi, with windex, at the living room window cleaning it}
GJ	Gojira goujons ganja. (Godzilla divides pot into segments) "goujon" is to divide or segment. Like the segments of an orange.
GK	Gekko gunks a gecko (villain Gordon Gekko sullies the good name of a species of gekko) [gunks=dirties] {Gordon Gecko giving a speech to investors in an auditorium, with a microphone} Gordon Gekko is a character played by Michael Douglas in the 1987 movie "Wall Street". He isn't specifically modeled after one single person, but two of the influences were Ivan Boesky and Oliver Stone's own father, a financier. Gekko is the archetypal greedy businessman. He gives a speech, "Greed is, for lack of a better term, good... Greed works..." The character was so iconic that a real species of gecko was named after him, Cyrtodactylus gordongekkoi.
GL	Gollum gullets a gill (Gollum eats a fish) Gollum of "Lord of the Rings" fame. Gullet is an informal word for esophagus, or throat and esophagus.
GM	Gomer gums a gummi (Jim Nabors eats a gummi bear between songs) [gums=eats] Nabors most famously played Gomer Pyle. Nabors was born in Alabama, discovered by Andy Griffith at a Santa Monica nightclub. Appeared in numerous TV shows and movies. Moved to Hawaii with his partner Stan Cadwallader. Godfather to Carol Burnett's daughter. Recorded 30 albums with his baritone voice. Beautiful human being.
GN	Grannie granites a gun (Aunt Eller from the musical "Oklahoma!" smashes a gun with a rock) [granites=smashes with a granite rock] {Aunt Eller on the outdoor dance floor, with gun, surrounded by cowboys and farmers} Aunt Eller, in the movie, doesn't destroy the gun, she shoots it in the air to get people's attention and get them to stop fighting. But close enough.
GO	Goober googles a goose (Goober Pyle googles a goose after his cousin writes that he is learning to goose-step) {Goober at the Mayberry gas station wearing his signature whoopie hat} In season 5, Gomer Pyle left the Andy Griffith show to spin off his own show where he was in the army. Goober Pyle, Gomer's cousin, was introduced instead (They were in one episode together). Goober was played by George Lindsey, who like Jim Nabors was from Alabama. He always wore the character's signature whoopie cap. Goose stepping is a stylized military march, with straight legs, made famous by Hitler's parades.
GP	Gipper_the grips a grape (George Gipp holds a football) "Gipp died at age 25 of a streptococcal throat infection and pneumonia, three weeks after a win over Northwestern in his senior season, and was the subject of Rockne's [real-life] "Win just one for the Gipper" speech. In the 1940 film 'Knute Rockne, All American', he was portrayed by Ronald Reagan." Grapes and footballs are both prolate spheroids
GQ	Gasquet greques a grecque (Richard Gasquet rackets --plays tennis with-- Greek player Stefanos Tsitsipas) [grecques=decorates with meander/grecque linear labyrinth designs; grecque=a Greek vase with meander/grecque designs] Richard Gasquet (" The Virtuoso") is a French tennis player, ranked No. 7 in the world at one point. He played a nail-biter match with Stefanos Tsitsipas (" The Greek God"). A meander, or "grecque", is the name for those linear labyrinth designs found around paintings, and encircling greek vases. Is named for the Meander river in the ancient world. A tennis racket is very gresque-like. The orthogonal pattern of gut could be thought of as labyrinthine, and the metal oval ring could easily be designed with a grecque for ornamentation. A couple quotes: "The final match of a drama-packed second day of Ultimate Tennis Showdown produced an absolute thriller, as The Greek God, Stefanos Tsitsipas, edged out The Virtuoso Richard Gasquet after sudden-death. " "But the flashing backhand blade of Gasquet is one of the great joys of tennis"
GR	Gore gores a gar (Gore eats a valuable fish) [gores=attacks a thing, or everybody in a place] Al Gore was falsely accused of eating endangered Chilean Sea Bass at his daughter's rehearsal dinner. It turned out the dish was from an appropriate farm. The gar is a long big freshwater fish, 100 million years old
GS	Gauss guesses gas (Gauss argues that there is no vacuum in space) [guesses=person is blindfolded, and guesses identity by touch only; gas=the helium in a helium balloon] <Germany> Carl Friedrich Gauss, 1777 - 1855. "The greatest mathematician since antiquity". Mathematician, physicist, astronomer. Gauss was the kid who supposedly added the numbers from 1 to 100 in seconds after being disciplined by a teacher. Gauss worked in many fields, tunneling deep and exhaustively into his subject matter, only publishing when he was completely satisfied with his work. Gauss's personal motto: "Few, but ripe". He was born into a poor, working class family. He taught himself Russian at the age of 62. There is a photo of him on his deathbed, in 1855. Gauss had conflicts with his children, discouraging them from mathematics and other interests of theirs. Two of his sons moved to Missouri and became successful businessmen. Gauss quote: "It is not knowledge, but the act of learning, not possession but the act of getting there, which grants the greatest enjoyment. When I have clarified and exhausted a subject, then I turn away from it, in order to go into darkness again. The never-satisfied man is so strange; if he has completed a structure, then it is not in order to dwell in it peacefully, but in order to begin another. I imagine the world conqueror must feel thus, who, after one kingdom is scarcely conquered, stretches out his arms for others."
GT	Goethe gats a goat (Goethe shoots a goat with an early gatling gun) /"Goethe has a "t" sound, no "h". If you say "Go to get a girder" fast, you've almost said his name correctly three times. Or say "Good ta go" but without the "d" or the "go". Or say "could-a, should-a, Goethe", being sure to pause ponderously to spit out a juicy "t" sound. Or just use mobster John Gotti for this sentence/ {Goethe in an office surrounded by mineral rock samples, with a small bone in his hand} As for Goethe, I don't know what the man had against goats, but the two poems of his I found regarding the beast were NOT complimentary. (They're copied at the end). Goethe's face resembles Q's, the Star Trek TNG character. Goethe (1749 - 1842) is considered Germany's pre-eminent poet in the modern era. His shadow is enormous. Classical musicians know him as the author of many poems that Schubert and others set to music. Readers know him as the author of "Faust" and the poem "Prometheus". He was also a scientist, making unique contributions to the early science of color and other subjects. He showed the existence of one particular bone (now known as Goethe's bone) across all mammals, and he had the largest collection of minerals (17,000 rocks) in Europe. So yeah, he was well-rounded. And while doing these various things, he was also a government official, officiating over various swaths of land under German rulers. btw, Goethe's first big novel was a thinly veiled story of his love for another man's wife. Regarding the goats: "EXPLANATION OF AN ANTIQUE GEM: A young fig-tree its form lifts high/ Within a beauteous garden/ And see, a goat is sitting by/As if he were its warden.// But, oh, Quirites, how one errs!/ The tree is guarded badly/ For round the other side there whirrs/ And hums a beetle madly.//The hero with his well-mailed coat/ Nibbles the branches tall so;/ A mighty longing feels the goat/ Gently to cllmb up also.// And so, my friends, ere long ye see/ The tree all leafless standing;/ It looks a type of misery/ Help of the gods demanding.//  Then listen, ye ingenuous youth,/Who hold wise saws respected:/ From he-goat and from beetle's tooth/ A tree should be protected!" ...and... " 'Goats, to the left with you!' the Judge one day will ordain. 'And you, little sheep, stand quietly here on my right!' - Fair enough; but it is to be hoped he will say one thing more, namely: 'As for you, stand right opposite me, you men of sense!"
GU	Gus guts a gudgeon (astronaut Gus Grissom cleans a fish) [guts=imagine object on counter with its insides laying next to it, or if it doesn't have clearly definable component parts, the object is in pieces] A gudgeon is a small a European fish. They are common in lakes and streams, and are a frequent target for children fishermen. (Adults catch them too). The peacock gudgeon (marine, corral reefs) is extraordinarily beautiful. Gudgeons have two whiskers, like a catfish, and are bottom-feeders. They are long and fairly cylindrical. Gus Grissom was born and raised in Indiana. He married his high school sweetheart, and went into the military. He spent his short service in WWII as a clerk, but by the time the Korean war came around he was a pilot, and flew 100 missions in a six-month tour of duty. Once, while teaching a student to fly, the student caused a wing flap to break off, and as the craft went into a roll, Grissom quickly climbed up into the pilot's seat and took control of the plane, landing it safely. He was selected to be one of the seven first astronauts in the Mercury project. "He was nearly disqualified when doctors discovered that he suffered from hay fever, but was permitted to continue after he argued that his allergies would not be a problem due to the absence of ragweed pollen in space." He was the second American to go to space. Grissom's landing of the pod in the ocean, where the door opened and the craft sank, caused controversy and debate over his actions, but it appears unlikely he did anything wrong. (btw, he designed and invented parts of the spacecraft he flew). He was one of the three astronauts who died in a fire during a flight rehearsal a month before its scheduled takeoff. The mission, AS-204, was re-named Apollo 1 in their honor. Grissom was a family man. He enjoyed going hunting and fishing with his kids. He tried to keep his reading of technical manuals and other work things to a time after the children had gone to bed.
GV	Grover gavels a guava (Grover Cleveland decides against a farm bill) A guava is a lemon-sized tropical fruit, light green on the outside, pink on the inside. You can eat the rind (skin) or scoop out just the insides. The seeds are edible. They originated in central America, and spread to South America. India now produces more guavas than any other country. The taste is like a cross between a pear and a strawberry. Grover Cleveland was a lawyer, though I don't know if he was ever a gavel-weilding judge. He believed aid was not the province of government. And he vetoed lots of special interest bills. In vetoing a bill to help Texas farmers, he wrote "the people support the Government, the Government should not support the people." He was popular... until the economic downturn of 1893, at which time he became extremely unpopular. Also- he is the only president to serve two non-consecutive terms.
GW	Gawain glows a gowan (Sir Gawain sets a flower ablaze with Greek Fire) [glows=lights with Greek Fire] /Gawain=guh-WANE, gowan=GO-uhn/ A gowan is a wild white or yellow flower, especially a daisy, native to the British Isles. Gawain was Arthur's nephew. One important story about Gawain dating from the 13th century contains an early European description of Greek Fire. Gawain goes to Rome and fights against pirates who used Greek Fire. So I fancifully imagine him bringing the technology home with him and, in using it against his enemies in the British Isles, lighting up a gowan or two. (Greek fire was a real thing, though no one knows for sure how they made it. They were able to pump some napalm-like substance onto enemy ships. It wasn't extinguished by water. It apparently acted like a flame thrower. It was used to resist both Arab attacks on Constantinople). Sir Gawain and the Green Knight is one of the most famous Arthurian stories. It is from the 14th Century. "It describes how Sir Gawain, a knight of King Arthur's Round Table, accepts a challenge from a mysterious 'Green Knight' who dares any knight to strike him with his axe if he will take a return blow in a year and a day. Gawain accepts and beheads him with his blow, at which the Green Knight stands up, picks up his head and reminds Gawain of the appointed time. In his struggles to keep his bargain, Gawain demonstrates chivalry and loyalty until his honour is called into question by a test involving the lord and the lady of the castle where he is a guest."
GX	Glox goxes gloxinias (Rapper Glox takes a flame-thrower to flowering gloxinias) [goxes=uses a flame thrower] Glox (perhaps a shortening of Goldilox?) is one half of Australian rap duo Glox and Burd Brain. Glox is the woman. They have a lot videos where they're rapping in houses and other spaces. Glox doesn't look healthy and well, and I imagine her taking a flame thrower to green plants. She has short hair, and then long dreads on one side, at least in one video. "gox" means gaseous oxygen. Aerospace people use the term to differentiate it with "lox", liquid oxygen. The thing i know about oxygen is that it burns really easily, so i think gox would be great in a flame thrower. Gloxinia is a beautiful genus of flowering plants from the Andes. One pic i saw had a 6-petalled red flower with a fun, clean white margin around all its edges, as if an artist had come along and drawn its outline with a thick white pencil.
GY	Guy geysers glycerine (Guy Fawkes uses glycerine as part of his planned explosion of the parliament building) [geysers=sprays with a fire hose; glycerine=a bottle of viscous glycerine] {Guy, in a small basement room, surrounded by bags of gunpowder} How many substances do you know that are used in explosives, cake icing, and suppositories? Just one! Glycerine! Yes, it's the glycerine in nitro glycerine, and the creamy smoothness in fondant and laxatives. Guy Fawkes famously almost blew up the Brirish Parliament building on November 5 (Now "Guy Fawkes Day"), 1605. He and about 8 others planned the explosion, which was an effort to get rid of the Protestant king and bring Catholics to power. The plotters tried to get help from Spain, but were turned down, so they did it on their own. They were able to rent a room in the basement, under the seat of parliament, and over the course of several days, months before the attack, filled it with gunpowder. In the days leading up to the event, they discovered that the gunpowder had gone bad, so they brought down more. Unfortunately for them, one of the conspirators wrote an anonymous letter to a Catholic friend in parliament warning him not to be in parliament on the given day, and the letter circulated around to the king and security forces. The collaborators knew the letter had gone around, but went ahead with their plan. The morning of November 5th, guards swept through the whole building, and they discoverd Guy Fawkes in a room full of gunpowder. He was straightforward about his goals, saying his plan was to blow them all to high heaven, but it took a couple days of torture to get his real name and the names of his conspirators. Eventually they were all rounded up and executed in gruesome ways.
	
	H is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
HA	Haas haha's a haanepoot (Eduard Haas of Pez fame laughs at the notion of people eating grapes rather than candy). A haanepoot is a large, fleshy grape from South Africa (thus the double-A) used in making white wine. Haas: There are TWO confectioners named Haas. One is in SF. But the more famous one is Eduard Haas of Austria. His parents were in the food biz, and early on in life he took out a patent on a better baking powder. He eventually developed tasty mints, later to be put into a cool new dispenser which became the iconic pez dispenser. Pez is short for pfermemintz or something like that, the word for peppermint in Austrian. Haas was an anti-smoking person, and he billed the mints as an alternative thing to put in your mouth. Later, Haas and Pez came to America (NY) and started marketing toward kids, with colorful pez dispensers and non-mint flavors
HB	Hobbes hibachis a hamburger (Hobbes, from Calvin & Hobbes, cooks hamburgers with the coal from Calvin's stocking) [hibachis=burns] <Cleveland, Ohio> In one of the pre-Christmas strips, Calvin tells Hobbes that he's been an angel this year, "just like every year". Hobbes replies "In that case, we can have a cookout with your stocking contents."
HC	Hecate hocusses a hotcake (Greek goddess Hecate puts a spell on a pancake) Hecate is the ancient (800 BC) Greek goddess of witchcraft, magic, the Moon, ghosts, hellhounds, and doorways. ("Did you say you were the goddess of Doorways??" "Yeah, I'm the goddess of witchcraft and doorways, and just so you know, ya breakfast is cursed 'cuz you said that, How you like me now?!") She is often shown holding a pair of torches and depicted in triple form. "Her earliest appearance in literature was in Hesiod's Theogony in the last third part of the 8th century BCE". A hotcake is usually synonymous with pancake, though apparently hotcake is a more general term for a round, fried batter product. 
HD	Hedda hides a hod (Hedda Gabler puts a manuscript in a basket and hides it) [hides=hides in a pocket, or throws a coat over (object)] <Oslo, Norway> {Hedda, blonde and elegantly dressed, in a small room with a wooden floor, with a pistol} A hod used to mean bucket... Let's just say Hedda put the manuscript in a bucket and then hid the bucket... A hod is a peculiarly shaped carrying vessel. It is a bucket on a pole, but in place of a bucket, there are three planes at right angle to each, like half of a six-sided cube, and it used to carry bricks. Eilert, Hedda's former lover, dropped the manuscript while drunk. Hedda was jealous, and also views Eilert's work as a threat to her husband's academic career. She hides it, and gives him a pistol to shoot himself with. Eventually, Hedda commits suicide. Hedda Gabler, 1890 play by Norweigian playwright Ibsen. Considered a very serious dramatic role for a female actor. Hedda considers herself aristocracy but has no money. Husband is an academic struggling to get a firm position. Her love interest with her husband's academic rival leads to his suicide/death. She is under pressure from a judge who says he'll keep quiet but ot looks like he's going to ask for favors. stuck in the machinations of her own life, she commits suicide)
HE	Heekin heals heme (First grade teacher Mrs. Heekin puts a bandaid on a student's cut) [heme=a vial of blood] {Mrs. Heekin, with clipboard, in a first grade classroom} I believe it was Mrs. Heekin who gave the advice "Keeping all children busy, though they finish projects at different speeds, is like cooking a meal in a kitchen."
HF	Heifetz huffs a heifer (Jascha Heifetz breathes hard while picking up a violin strung with gut strings) [huffs=struggles to lift] <modern-day Lithuania> A heifer is a young female cow who has not borne a calf. Heifetz is considered by many to be the greatest violinist who ever lived, or the greatest since Paganini. He had a quick, tempestuous playing style (rather than smooth). His father was a locally successful violinist. Heifetz had his big debut at age 7. ("And I suppose before that you were just a bum?" said one of the Marx brothers to him, purportedly). Heifetz and his family emigrated from Russia to the U.S. when he was a child. Later in life he taught at UCLA or some southern CA university. He was an advocate for the 911 telephone system, and turned his Renault into an electric vehicle. He used gut strings for one or more of the four strings. Gut strings are occasional made from cow intestines (heifer). Heifitz was from Vilna, the capital of modern-day Lithuania but a part if Russia in Heifitz' lifetime. Lithuania is on the Baltic Sea, next to Poland. The Lithunian language is ancient. Baltic amber was exported to the Roman Empire via the Amber Road in ancient times. In the 15th century, a region comprising Lithuania and other nearby countries was the largest country in Europe.
HG	Hagrid hugs a hog (Hagrid hugs a hog)
HH	
HI	Hi hi's a hilum (Hi of "Hi and Lois" reacts in surprise to his wife showing of her midriff in a 2-piece) [hilam=kidney bean; hi's: someone just walked up bringing the (object), or opened the door, and person greets (object)] The hilum is the depression-shaped part of the kidney, and here I mean it as the general shape of the human body above the waist, in an hourglass figure, and that midriff area also happens to correspond to where the kidney is. There are a number of Hi and Lois strips where Lois shocks the staid Hi by wearing a bikini. So I imagine him saying "HEllo" to her bare midriff. Hiram Flagston and Lois Flagston nee Bailey, sister of Beetle Bailey. By Mort Walker (also did Beetle Bailey) and Dik Browne (also did Hagar). The names Hi and Lois are a pun on High and Low. The baby talks to sunbeams in thought bubbles.
HJ	Haji hijacks a hijab (Actress Haji takes a hijab and wears it inappropriately) [hijacks=takes, or takes control of] A hijab is a head covering worn by some Muslim women. Many resemble a simple wide scarf, but tied around the head and neck. Haji was a Quebec-born actor. She appeared in several Russ Meyer films.
HK	Hank hucks a hankie (Henry Winkler throws a handkerchief to an upset child) [hankie=a white handkerchief] Henry Winkler (who played the Fonz in "Happy Days", and has done a lot of acting and directing) has written a series of books about a character named Hank Zipzer based on himself. Hank is dyslexic and struggles in school.
HL	Hill halogens a helicopter (Harold Hill shines a spotlight on a helicopter) [halogens=at NIGHT, shines a headlamp on object] <Iowa> Robert Preston, who played the Harol Hill in the Music Man, later starred in "The Last Starfighter", a 1984 sci-fi movie with lots of early CGI. He probably shone some spotlights on helicopters in that movie somewhere.
HM	Homer hammers a ham (Homer Simpson invents an electric hammer and uses it to tenderize raw hamburger meat) <Oregon, probable> This is a mash-up of two Simpsons episodes: Episode 3 season 18, and season 7 episode 21 ("Steamed hams" section). In the first, Homer invents an electric hammer, which goes crazy and drags him around the room. (i watched a youtube video where a guy in his shop actually made a homer electric hammer from scratch). In the second, Principal Skinner prepares a luncheon for the Superintendent, but burns it and escapes out the window to replace it with hamburgers ("steamed hams") from across the street, giving increasingly implausible explanations to his guest.
HN	Hannah hennas a hen (Hannah Barron marks a hen as her own) {Hannah catfish noodling with a catfish in her hand} Think hot iron brands. There are different ways of marking animals, including tags, rings, and paint. So henna on a hen is not TOO far-fetched. Hannah Barron, youtube hunter and fisherman from Alabama. Effervescent. Watched interview where she talks about her daddy teaching her how to hunt deer. She is a marksman with a bow, hitting a bullseye. She and her friends reach in and pull catfish out of the water. She makes sounds to attract deer, grunting with her mouth, and manipulating a plastic device that looks like a mouthguard)
HO	Hood hooplas a ho_ho (Little Red Riding Hood gets excited about a macabre meal) So, one early version of this story is very disturbing: "Little Red is deceived into mistaking her granny’s teeth for rice, her flesh for steak, and her blood for wine, so she eats and drinks, and then jumps into bed with the beast and ends up getting gobbled up herself" The Little Red story has an almost-identical, centuries-old counterpart in China, with a tiger in place of the wolf. Anyway, the basic premise of the story is that the wolf has eaten Little Red's grandmother then dresses as the grandmother and fools Little Red, then in some stories eats her. And there was the movie "Hoodwinked" with a different plot. Anyway, Perrault, a French guy from the 1600's, wrote the basic version we all know, though the story is much older. Perrault also wrote "Sleeping Beauty" and a couple other very famous ones.
HP	Hope hops a hippo (Bob Hope hops onto a hippo) [hops=hops over] ...aaand, that's when I found an actual movie poster with Bob Hope on top of a hippo!... The movie is called "Call me Bwana", 1963. (Bob Hope was in 54 feature films. He was known for visiting troops with the USO. He hosted the academy awards (?) more than any other person. He helped give birth to the modern American comedian, with his style and sense of timing. He emigrated to the U.S., through Ellis Island, from England at the age of 4. He had a brief boxing career. He was doing jobs trimming trees as a young man when his tree fell over, and they had to so reconstructive surgery on his face, which gave him a distinctive look.
	
	
HQ	Harlequin hindquarters a harlequin (Harlequin, the DC character Molly Mayne, kicks a harlequin duck) [hindquarters=kicks] Harlequin ("Harley quinn") is a DC character created in 1992, as a supervillain and love interest for the Joker. She wears patterned red and black. She is an expert gymnast and is immune to several toxins. Harlequin ducks and great Danes are so-named for their dramatic patchy coloration. Harlequin great danes are the world's largest dogs. They are white with black patches. The harlequin is a stock character in 1500-1600 French and Italian plays. A jester or clown wearing an outrageously colorful pat work costume including face makeup. Sometimes a witty servant who outsmarys people. In french plays, a mute mime? Harlequins were associated with devils in 13th century plays. The word MAY be related to Erlkonig. Hindquarters sometimes refers to butt, but can refer to the entire back legs of a quadruped, so I use it here to mean "kick". 
HR	Harold hires a hare (Harry Potter rents a rabbit when he can't do the magic rabbit-in-hat trick legitimately) [hires=rents in British English. Can imagine a contract on a clipboard, and money changing hands. For a consumable like wine, can imagine the object being rented for display purposes only] {Harry Potter in the Great Hall at Hogwarts, with a wand} Harry Potter's full name is Harry, not Harold, but it's not good to have "y"s in the system unless they are one of the target letters.
HS	Hansel hoses a horse (Owen Wilson grooms a horse) <Texas> Owen Wilson's character in "Zoolander" is named Hansel. Wilson (who is from Texas) has acted in movies where he had to ride a horse, and he goes to horse races to support horse-racing friends. So he's probably groomed a horse at some point.
HT	Hattie hits a hat (Hattie Carnegie hits a competitor's hat in anger) [hits=punches] Hattie Carnegie, fashion icon from New York in the 1920's -50's. Born to a poor Jewish family. Gave herself the last name of Carnegie because of the famous Andrew Carnegie. Got Lucille Ball started. Made her first fortune designing hats, and then designed expensive outfits for movie stars, etc. Did patriotic things during WWIi, and designed uniforms for women in the military that stayed in use for decades. Third marriage was to Married Major John Zanft, her childhood sweetheart and a high-powered cinema executive
HU	Hugh humidifies a humanoid (Hugh maintains climate-controlled conditions on the Borg rehabilitation cube in Star Trek- Picard) [humidifies=squirts with a spray bottle; humanoid=a borg] Hugh, the former Borg, leads the reclamation project on an abandoned Cube in the series "Picard". On his staff he has an android, Data's daughter Soji. Once he understands what she is, he helps her escape with Picard.
HV	Havoc halves a hive (June Havoc goes on an exercise regimen and slims down) [halves=cuts in two with a sword] <Seattle, WA, age 5 debut> June Havoc, born Hovick, younger sister of Gypsy Rose Lee, and daughter of their famously overbearing mother who was their handler/agent. Havoc was an actor and Broadway producer, winning Tony awards and other recognition. Her home was a haven for animals. She bought an old train station and refurbished it, doing a lot of the labor herself, which is now a bustling hive of shops. Havoc on her mother: "I think Gypsy was one of the most smashing shows I've seen in my life," Havoc once told me. "But very little to do with fact. My mother was not such a monster. Few parents who had a child who, at the age of two, stood on her toes and danced every time she heard music, could resist putting her forward. Particularly if the child was happy doing it."
HW	Howard hews a howitzer (Howard Hughes blasts apart a howitzer with a bomber plane in WWII) A howitzer is a big canon. Howard Hughes was one of the wealthiest people of the early-ish 20th Century. Business tycoon. film producer, aviation mogul, pilot (held speed records), golpher. Several planes that he designed and test-piloted were used in WWII.
HX	Hoxworth hatboxes a helix (Paul Hoxworth puts a model of DNA into a hatbox for storage) [helix=slinky] DNA is in the shape of a double helix. Paul Hoxworth, for whom Hoxworth Blood Center is named, was a doctor in Cincinnati. He pioneered new methods of collecting and storing blood. He started college at 15, left twice, became a car salesman, and eventually went on to get a PhD. Blood cells are wrapped in a thin flexible wrapping made of hexagons. They are like little geodesic domes. Blood cells have an extraordinary ability to deform and for through small spaces. Hoxworth hexes them, meaning he puts a spell on them, making them love outside a person's body and go into another person's body, kind of like magic. 
HY	Hyland hypes a hymnal (Kathy Hyland, in her private life, encourages singing from a hymnal) Kathy Hyland, music teacher
	
	i is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
IA	Iacocca iambs an iamb (Lee Iacocca writes a poem) [iamb=physical paper with poem; iambs=writes an ode to (object)] /AH-yam, like "I am"/ An iamb - as opposed to a trochee- is short-long word, like "again". So here'sa genuine iambic Iacoca quote: "Apply yourself" (Lee Iacocca wrote many sayings, but apparently zero poetry. BUT, in his autobiography, Iacocca related that a NY Times article had told readers that his name rhymes with "try-a-coke-ah". Iacocca was raised in Allentown, PA, the child of Italian immigrants. He was known for his leadership abilities. He was the head of 2 of the 3 big US auto manufacturers in his life.
IB	ibis ibuprofens an ibis (ibis Gomez-Vega medicates a scarlet ibis) [ibuprofens=drugs, or pours bottles of ibuprofen over] /exec. decision: "I-bihs" for bird and name/ <Cuba> Gomez-Vega was born in Havana, Cuba. The Scarlet Ibis is a (strikingly orange-red) South American bird, and can be found in Trinidad-Tobago, but are only seen in Cuba rarely, as temporary travelers. Probably they would be in need of help, and Gomez-Vaga seems like the kind of person who might help one. Gomez-Vega went to school in Houston and Colorado, and now teaches at Northern Illinois University in DeKalb. Her big novel is "Send My Roots Rain", and her dissertation was titled "The Journey Home: Caribbean Women Writers Face the Wreckage of History." She has shortish curly hair gathered around her head like a laurel wreath. The ibises are a group of long-legged wading birds that inhabit wetlands. "Ibis" is the name ancient greeks used for this same bird. "Ibises all have long, down-curved bills, and usually feed as a group, probing mud for food items, usually crustaceans. Most nest in trees, often with spoonbills or herons. All extant species are capable of flight, but two extinct genera were flightless... The African sacred ibis was an object of religious veneration in ancient Egypt. The Egyptian diety Thoth is depicted as an ibis-headed man. Scientific study of sacred ibis mummies indicates that ancient Egyptians captured the birds from the wild rather than farming them. At Saqqara, archaeologists found the mummies of one and a half million ibises and hundreds of thousands of falcons. Harvard University's humor magazine, Harvard Lampoon, uses the ibis as its symbol. A short story "The Scarlet Ibis" by James Hurst uses the red bird as foreshadowing for a character's death and as the primary symbol. The Australian white ibis has become a focus of art, pop culture and memes since rapidly adapting to city life in recent decades, and has earned the popular nicknames 'bin chicken' "
IC	icarus ichors an icosahedron (icarus bloodies one of Euclid's solids when he falls to earth) [ichors=bleeds on; icosahedron=soccer ball] /ai-kuhr is acceptable, though Ai-core is more common. ONE source said ih-kuhrs/ {icarus, with obligatory laurel wreath, wearing wax-and-feather wings, in the labyrinth} Ichor is the blood of the gods. Also, the stinky clear fluid that flows out of a wound. An icosahedron is the largest of the 5 Platonic solids, and is the model for the soccer ball.
ID	Ida identifies an ide (Ida Hall identifies a silver orfe fish) [identifies=as from a lineup] {Ida on the shore next to a motor boat, with a floppy hat} An ide, or orfe, looks like an elongated crappie. It can be as long as a pike. An ide is a freshwater fish native to Europe and Asia. It Now they're everywhere. Ida Hall is a fisherman and advocate for stewardship of Chesapeake Bay and its watershed. "The Northumberland Association for Progressive Stewardship (NAPS) has selected Ida Hall to receive the 2019 Northumberland Distinguished Citizen Award." A graduate of William and Mary, she grew up around fishermen but thought she couldn't be one because she lacked the strength and it was a traditional male role. She ultimately became a fisherman, including doing crab pots. She always has a dog aboard, currently a beagle. Currently serves as secretary for the Virginia Waterman’s Association.
IE	ieva iena's a iena (ieva destroys her grandma's fancy purse for spite, and goes dancing) [iena's=blows up (object), in the manner of a battleship] ieva is a fictional young woman (modern spelling: Eva) who is the subject of a Finnish folk song (actually, one of the best known Finnish songs in the world), "ieva's Polka" . ieva sneaks out to dance all night long. The lyrics were first published in 1928, but the song is older. There are a number of modern, popular versions done by different artists. The iena was a pre-dreadnought French battleship named after the battle of Jena (a German city known for inventing and producing pyrex, among other things), in which Napolean was victorious. (pre-dreadnought means "after the first iron-clads, but before the revolutionary 1906 English ship Dreadnought which had steam turbines and was very fast). And finally, the iena MM is an enormously expensive, large luxury purse from Louis Vuitton, presumably also named after the famous city Jena.
IF	infamous inflates an infant (DJ infamous provides flotation for his child during a flood) DJ Infamous--the newer one, Calvin-- was at his home in Atlanta with his newborn when his house flooded. So this is a fanciful idea that he gives his infant an inflatable, or somehow makes the child float)
IG	Igor iggs an iguana (Igor Stravinsky kills off the dinosaurs while leaving the iguanas alone) [iggs=stands with his/her back to] To "igg" is to ignore, snub.  "Igg, a shortened form of ignore, seems to have come into American speech from jive, the special jargon of black jazz musicians in the 1930s". Igor Stravinsky was a Ruusian composer who emigrated to the United States between WWI and WWII, during the same period that "igg" was in use. Many American composers of popular music revered him. His music is used in the original Fantasia movie for the "history of earth" chapter, which culminates in the extinction of the dinosaurs. There is one shot of an iguana-like creature on the branch of a tree with dinosaurs nearby.
IH	Ishi itches an incher (Ishi scratches a bluegill, a 5-incher, shorter than the acceptable length, before releasing it) [itches=scratches; incher=small bluegill (fish)] Ishi was the last known member of Northern California's Yahi tribe. I picture him, in early life, fishing and catching a fish that is too small and releasing it to grow bigger for next time. ishi's family members were murdered in the genocide of Northern California in the late 1800's. Most of his immediate family were killed in an 1865 massacre. He and the remaining individuals went into hiding in the hills. Very probably this small band included Native Americans from other California tribes who had nowhere else to go. In 1908 surveyors found a camp with Ishi and three relatives and destroyed it, and when the four Yahi fled, Ishi never found those relatives again. In 1911, Ishi, starving, was captured and brought into custody near Mt. Lassen. He subsequently came to San Francisco and was under the care of the University there. He was studied by anthropologists and worked as a janitor. His story was a local sensation, and he did regular demonstrations of building bows and other things. He would not give his full name, since in Yahi tradition he needed to be introduced by another Yahi, so he was referred to as "man" in his own language. He was often sick, and died of tuberculosis in 1915. His closest surviving relatives are the Yana people of Northern California.
II	
IJ	ijeoma injects an injunction (Ijeoma Oluo responds vehemently and publicly when facebook places an unfair hold on her account) [injects=sticks with a needle; injunction=piece of paper, legal document, restraining order] /ee-JO-muh/ <Seattle> btw ijeoma is a common Nigerian name. Ijeoma Oluo is a Nigerian-American activist in Seattle. Her books include "So you want to talk about race". She is on the lecture circuit, talking about Black Lives Matter and other issues. Her house was "swatted" by white supremacists. At one point she received a lot of hate mail (via facebook I think), then re-posted it on facebook, and facebook shut down her account. I believe the idea is that facebook thought Oluo was publishing hateful content, when in reality she was publishing other people's content in an attempt to defend herself and her safety. Facebook later apologized. Also: She has worked as a standup comic. She has criticized Jill Stein, the Green Party candidate, for her (perceived) weak stance on universal vaccination. She is very critical of Donald Trump, including his response to COVID-19.
IK	ike inks ink (Dwight "ike" Eisenhower signs a document) [inks=writes all over; ink=an inkwell] Eisenhower was born in Abilene, Kansas. His grandparents and other relatives had been farmers. A quote of his regarding pens and farming, given in an address: "You know, farming looks mighty easy when your plow is a pencil, and you're a thousand miles from the corn field." Eisenhower had trouble deciding whether to run for president. The story is truly amazing. After his success as a 5-star general in WWII, many, esp. Democrats, were saying to have him on the ticket for president in 1948. He declined. Again he was approached in 1952. People took to the streets demonstrating to have him run. There was a public groundswell. Both parties wanted home, and no one knew which he might pick. He refused to rule it out, writing to a friend that it wasn't right to say no to serving your country if it needed you. Eventually he got put on a ballot for one of the state republican runoffs, without his permission, and won! Then he agreed to run , and gave his first campaign speech.
IL	illinois illuminates an ileum (Illinois Jacquet shines a spotlight on the American pelvis) [illuminates=shines a flashlight on] The ileum is the large, broad bone of the pelvis. (There are two) It includes the iliac crest. R&B is a style of music associated with hip-swinging. And Jean-Baptiste "illinois" Jacquet is recognized as recording the world's first R&B saxophone solo. The song was called "Flying Home", and it has been copied by many, many saxophonists. He was creole, from Louisiana. His dad was a part-time band leader. He defined a type of classic honking tenor saxophone, but also played the bassoon in jazz songs. "In 1942, at age 19, Jacquet soloed on the Hampton Orchestra's recording of 'Flying Home', one of the first times a honking tenor sax was heard on record. The record became a hit. The song immediately became the climax for the live shows and Jacquet became exhausted from having to 'bring down the house' every night. The solo was built to weave in and out of the arrangement and continued to be played by every saxophone player who followed Jacquet in the band"
IM	imelda immerses an image (Imelda Marcos hides a stolen painting by dunking it underwater) [image="American Gothic" painting] Ferdinand and Imelda Marcos ruled the Phillipines from 1965 to 1986. Imelda Marcos was famous for her shoe collection, her lavish ways, and the two of them hold a Guinness record for stealing money from a government ($10 billion from the Philippine government). She once made an airplane do a U-turn because she had forgotten to buy cheese in Rome) The Marcoses were exiled in Hawaii after their rule, then Ferdinand died, and Imelda eventually returned to the Phillipines. She is thought to have used stolen money to buy several hundred paintings by the likes of Monet and Picasso. She has had 15 paintings seized from her home so far.  "Another attempted raid turned up only empty walls where old photos showed paintings, after Imelda had the inspectors wait an hour before entering."
IN	innes inns an innie (Neil Innes takes his fake belly prop to a hotel) [inns=to house something/keep it inside; innie=a strap-on, skin-toned pregnant belly prop for the stage] {Neil Innes in a hotel room with hairbrush for microphone, practicing for his belly button song} Neil Innes, composer and performer, the Rutles. Had to swear under oath that he hadn't listened to Beatles songs while writing his songs, that he was just working from memory. Sometimes called the "seventh python". Performed the whistling part for "Always look on the bright side of life." Donned a ridiculous costume with hairy chest and pot belly, complete with belly button, to sing a crooning ballad. His band made "Death cab for Cutie".
IO	iolanthe ionizes iodine (Iolanthe, being a fairy with healing powers, particle-izes an iodine treatment) [ionizes=blasts into little particles; iodine=think purple bottle of liquid iodine drops, or a small chunk of sublimating iodine in a petri dish] ionized iodine is used as a cancer treatment. Iolanthe, being a fairy, has wings and is dressed in a flower-petal costume. Fairies probably have healing power, so iodine makes sense. Iolanthe, at the outset of the play, has been banished for having married a mortal 25 years before. Her son Strephon is in love with Phyllis. The play ends with all the fairies marrying peers and they all go off to fairyland. The play, in the 1880's, was the first ever to be illuminated by electric lights. it debuted simultaneously in England and in America, the fourth big hit in a row for Gilbert and Sullivan. Iodine is a trace element in many foods. its is in the soil. iodine deficiency is a problem in some places in the world. Thus, iodized salt, etc. Iodine is concentrated in the thyroid, and is used in thyroid hormones. Iodine is usually found as the ionized form iodide, in potassium iodide or sodium iodide. Iodine is a lustrous, purple-black solid at room temperature. It melts to form a deep violet liquid, and boils to a violet gas at 184 degrees Celsius.
IP	Ippolito ippons an iPad (Ian Ippolito conquers an iPad) [ippons= throws to the ground in a judo move] /ee-PAWN/ {ippolito tapping away at a laptop, inventing the predecessor of gitHub} An ippon is a judo move where you throw your opponent on his/her back. ("An ippon in judo is the equivalent of a knockout punch in boxing.") You HAVE to go watch it on YouTube RIGHT NOW! Ian Ippolito is a tech entrepreneur. He famously lost s ton of money in the dotcom bubble burst of 2001, but I think he's doing alright now. In 1997 he developed a system for coders to share code. And... Ippolito is an Italian name. Fun fact about Itay: The mass emigration of Italians from 1880-1980 ( now referred to as the italian diaspora, is the largest voluntary emigration in all of human history. Many Italians came to the Americas, including Ontario, New York, Argentina, and more than anywhere else, Brazil. (the name ippolito is from the ancient name Hippolytos)
	
	
IQ	inquilla inquests an inquisitor (Kirsten "Kish" Inquilla questions an authority figure in the Catholic Church) [inquests=treats (object) as a piece of evidence in an investigation, like Exhibit A; inquisitor=picture the Monty Python sketch with three inquisitors dressed in deep-red outfits and red hats, and large crosses hanging around their necks] With apologies to the modern Catholic faith... Kirsten Inquilla, of Inquilla Law, in Kalamazoo worked within a Diocese for 12 years helping asylum seekers from Cuba, Nigeria, etc. She went to school in Cincinnati, UC. She seems like the kind of person who would question, or lead an inquest of, the wrongs of the Medieval Inquisition, though it is clear from her website that the Catholic institutions she worked for aided and supported her good work (so, my apologies!) Since 2013 she has had her own firm. From the Inquilla Law website: "Inquilla Law focuses on family-based immigration law. Attorneys Kirsten "Kish" Inquilla, Esq. and Benjamin Daniel "Danny" Inquilla are attorneys committed to providing high-quality and affordable legal counsel on immigration matters. Kish has worked exclusively in immigration law since becoming a lawyer in 1999. Danny has worked with immigrant families in Michigan, including with immigration cases, since 1999. Both Kish and Danny speak Spanish and have worked with Spanish-speaking families for their entire careers."
IR	ira irrigates an iris (Ira Gershwin writes a song that brings tears to people's eyes) Ira gershwin, lyricist and brother of George Gershwin. Ira wrote "Let's Call the Whole Thing Off" (tomato/tomahto), "I got Rhythm" and so many more. (He collaborated on, but did NOT write the lyrics to most songs of, Porgy and Bess, including "Summertime"). The iris is a plant with showy flowers. The word iris is Greek for Rainbow, and Iris was the Greek goddess of rainbows. Some think the iris got its name because of the many colors of irises in the world. Of course, the colorful human eye bears the same name.
IS	Isildur insulates an insect (Isildur protects and holds close the ring of power, which is all the while gnawing him from the inside like an insect) [insulates=wraps with fiberglass insulation; insect=dragonfly] isildur (Lord of the Rings) was escaping from orcs by swimming, and the ring loosened itself and sank. He became visible and was shot by an arrow. The ring stayed at the bottom of the Anduin, until it was discovered by Deagol, whose brother Smeagol murdered him for it.
IT	Ito itemizes an itinerary (ito Mancio takes stock of his Italian itinerary) [itemizes=stands with a clipboard and makes note of COLOR and SIZE, in preparation for selling (object), itinerary=physical piece of paper with the day's schedule] ito Mancio led a delegation of Japanese leaders to Rome in 1582. it is considered the beginning of Japanese-Italy relations. ito is a common Japanese name. Ito's delegation had an audience with Pope Gregory XIII. ito became a Jesuit back in Japan, and then became a priest. Ito sailed to China, India, Portugal, then Spain before arriving in Italy. He was welcomed in Rome, Venice, and Florence. Italy and Japan were allies in both world wars. in WWI they were both on OUR side.
IU	iustitia iubes a iurek (Lady Justice commands that heated vests not be worn by Olympic competitors) [iubers=commands to go somewhere or do something] iustitia is a Latin goddess of Justice, often pictured with three items: A blindfold, a 2-platform weight scale, and a sword. "iubes" is a form of the Latin word "iubere", meaning "to command, to order". The English word "jussive" is descended from it. iurek is a company that makes battery-heated vests. The company founder owns a ski resort somewhere, but I couldn't dig up a location. I like to picture it as a Finnish company. The vests are washable, and very stylish.
IV	Ivanka invents an invention (Ivanka Trump creates the Trump Foundation) [invents=invents and then tries to show it off and sell it at a trade convention; invention=Alexander Graham Bell's telephone, one with a cradle and curly cord] <Manhattan> The Trump Foundation was shut down by courts in 2019, since the funds from this charitable non-profit had been used to pay for $20,000 oil paintings of the president and other such things. Ivanka underwent court-ordered training on what a foundation is.
IW	Ingwe inwalls the iwi (High elven king ingwe raises a wall of mountains around the elves, everywhere except the river) [iwi=elves of Aman, or action figures representing them] The Maoris of New Zealand refer to themselves as the iwi, "the people"
IX	INXS ixne's an IMAX (the band INXS, including frontman Michael Hutchence, denies and destroys copies of its IMAX movie) [ixne's=waves away or shoves away with the hand; IMAX=IMAX projector] So, ixne is usually spelled ixnay, and is pig latin for "nix", or "get rid of". In my head, I always spell it "ixne", which is good since "ixnay" could be interpreted as IY. But I admit it's sketchy... INXS is an Australian band. Their frontman was Michael Hutchence, shoulder-length brown curly hair. His life took some bad turns, including an altercation with a taxi driver in which he suffered a head injury and lost his sense of smell. Things continued to spiral down from there... There was indeed an IMAX movie about INXS. They had a famous concert, a pre-cell-phone concert, where thousands of people were rocking out together in a stadium. I imagine them, later in their career, denying this IMAX movie for some reason and trying to remove it from store shelves.
IY	ilya isopropyls an ichthyoid (ilya Espino de Marotta cleans and sanitizes a fish) [ichthyoid=shark; isopropyls=cleans and sanitizes] {ilya on a lock, with her pink hard hat} Ilya Espino de Marotta, listed as one of the 50 most powerful women in Central America by Forbes Magazine, is in charge of the Panama Canal Expansion Project. “I wear the pink hard-hat to make a statement that a woman can do this job.” As of 2016, she was still on the project, and at that time had already worked for the Panama Canal in various functions for 30 years. She has a degree from Texas A & M, and another from a University in Panama. She grew up admiring Jacques Cousteau and his aqualung. "I love the ocean... It's my life". She is a marine engineer. Sounds like she has probably cleaned many fish along the way too.
	
	J is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
JA	JarJar jaguars a Jamaican (JarJar Binks takes a Jamaican person for a ride in an attempt to get his accent down) [jaguars=drives in a jaguar car; jamaican=Tia Maria coffee liqueur from Jamaica] Is there any character more reviled than JarJar Binks from Star Wars? ("Me-suh GOOD alien. Me-suh want NO trouble!") Tia Maria is a liqueur originated in Jamaica. It has coffee and vanilla.
JB	Job jawbones a Jumbo (Job yammers at God) [jumbo=elephant, jawbone's = try to influence someone from one's (supposed in this case) position of power] Job is humble relative to other people, but even so God upbraids him, demanding he not try to understand God) (Job speaks at length with his friends trying to understand god and life and wishing both were different from what they are. He receives a smackdown, then gets all his wealth back and new children)
JC	Jacob jacuzzis a jacchus (Mandolin Jacob takes a jacuzzi with a new world monkey) [system: jacuzzis=has a jacuzzi with, or takes a jacuzzi in (place-name) ] Jacob Do Bandolim ("mandolin Jacob") was a successful musician in brazil. He did not like the image of a folksy disorganized musician, and demanded that his musicians dress well and show up on time. Jacchus is a Latin name for a marmoset. It is a new world monkey, living in Brazil including in Rio de Janeiro. They are small and have long tails. They have claws on their fingers rather than the flat nails of most primates. They have been successful recently, even invasive, so I imagine Jacob the successful musician having a jacuzzi with the successful new world monkey.
JD	Jade judases jade (Jade Edmistone peeps at a jade stone) [jade=jade necklace pendant, either a gold-bordered oval or a carved dragon, or a raw rectangular block shape] Jade Edmistone, an Australian world-record Olympian swimmer, wrote a book "Fish out of Water ", about adjusting to normal life after athletic retirement. A friend committed suicide when she was 16, sparking brand new thoughts of emptiness, which she staved off with her training regime. She has gone on tours and written motivational books. I imagine her sometimes seeing beauty , such as jade, only through a door's spyhole (a "judas"). Jade, the stone, has the reputation in China that gold and diamonds have in the West. it is green. it has been a precious stone for millenia.
JE	Jeannie jeers jeans (Barbara Eden doesn't like jeans and rarely wore them) Barbara Eden, from "I dream of Jeannie". The leading man, Larry Hagman, was supposed to be an astronaut. Barbara Eden was in a number of episodes of Dallas, where Larry Hagman played JR. Barbara Eden was in lots of things, including an episode of Andy Griffith. She described how, AFTER the first season or so, the producers suddenly got very worried about her showing her navel, and it had to kept under wraps. She wore interesting tops.
JF	Jeff jerf's jif (Jeff Rice eats peanut butter) [jerfs=eats. Can picture person with knife and fork, and napkin] The JERF diet: "Just Eat Real Food". It means eating whole foods and healthy stuff.
JG	Jagger juggles jaggers (Mick Jagger has multiple relationships at once, and several children) [jagger=crimping tool for pie crust] A Jagger is a toothed chisel, or a tool for crimping piecrust edges (makes jagged). Mick Jagger was married about three times, and was unfaithful in each marriage. He has children by several women. Selected love interests: Marianne Faithfull , Marsha Hunt (the inspiration for "Brown Sugar"), Bebe Buell (groupie, playboy model, fun person). Bianca Macias, Jerry Hall together for 20 years. She later married Rupert Murdoch), Carla Sarcozy ( model and later the First Lady of France, married to Nicolas).
JH	Josh joshes a jackshaft (Joshua Norton inspects and derides the jackshaft of a cable car) [joshes: says "You call yourself a (object) ?! while looking at a smallish example of, or toy version of, (object); jackshaft=a steel rod with a gear at each end, think barbells] {Bearded Emperor Norton with cap and cane, next to a cable car} Joshua Abraham Norton, better known as Emperor Norton, was a real-life eccentric character on the streets of San Francisco in the late 1800's. The current Bush Man of San Francisco could be included in his legacy. He was born in England, moved to South Africa as a child, then became a successful and influential businessman in San Francisco. He lost his fortune when he made a bad gamble on a shipful of Peruvian rice. He thought could corner the market on rice, but after he bought the entire ship of rice for $25,000 another couple of boats of rice arrived at the dock and the retail price plummeted. He fought legal battles over the matter and won in lower courts, but lost in the California Supreme court. He became an eccentric, walking the streets of San Francisco in a blue military uniform. He declared himself Emperor of the United States, and later "Protector of Mexico". He created edicts in which he disbanded the U.S. Congress, and repeatedly demanded that either a bridge or a tunnel be built to connect San Francisco to Oakland. (The "Bay Bridge" was eventually built, decades later, and is the most heavily traveled bridge in the world. Repeated and ongoing attempts to name portions of the bridge after Emperor Norton have failed). He spent his days inspecting cable cars, sidewalks, policemen, and public buildings. Restaurants he frequented issued and honored currency in his name, and souvenirs with his likeness were sold to tourists. At one point he was institutionalized as insane, but was released after a public outcry. When his uniform started looking shabby, a local group got him a new one, which he thanked them for and wore with pride. At the age of 62, he collapsed and died out on the streets he had ruled over. 10,000 people lined the streets for his funeral. "A jackshaft, also called a countershaft, is a common mechanical design component used to transfer or synchronize rotational force in a machine." Basically, it looks like a shaft with two or more gears on it. I'm still not 100% on the specific function of a jackshaft, but I know what they look like. A jackshaft is a ubiquitous element in machines that have gears. At its simplest, it is a rod with a gear on each end. Think barbells. One gear gets turned by a (third) gear directly attached to a motor (by an input shaft?), and the 2-gear-and-rod component (the jackshaft), being a solid body, turns as a unit and causes the gear on the opposite end of the shaft to turn (and this gear in turn is probably connected to something ELSE, or perhaps this gear is actually a wheel with some real functionality.
JI	Jimi jilts a jilgie (Jimi Hendrix leaves everyone in the dust, even the finest musicians who grow and change their shells) [jilts=leaves] /JILL-ghee/ {onstage at Woodstock, guitar strapped on, playing the National Anthem} A jilgie is a species of crayfish in Australia. I don't know about crayfish, but lobsters are famous for growing too big for their shells and so discarding the old one and growing a new one. Therefore, lobsters are used as a metaphor for growth. But grow as you may, you can't keep up with Jimi Hendrix. On Hendrix's first visit to England, he was playing in clubs and causing quite a stir. Jeff Beck woke up to a call one morning and a friend said he had to go see Hendrix. Beck saw the show, "..and I just went away from there thinking 'I better think of something else to do' " Hendrix was given the opportunity to play onstage with Cream, including Eric Clapton, at the height of the "Clapton is God" era. Hendrix started playing with his teeth, playing behind his back, etc. At some point Clapton just let his arms drop from his guitar, and walked off stage. When his bandmate went to check on him, Vlapton was trying to light a cigarette, his hands shaking. Clapton said "Is he really that good?" In the words of another of Clapton's bandmates: "Eric was a great guitar player... Jimi was a force of nature."
JJ	
JK	Jack jacks a jackal (Jack Nicholson hits a canine with his car) [jacks=puts on boxing gloves and punches out] {Jack Nicholson in the hedge labyrinth in "The Shining" carrying an axe} Near the beginning of the movie "Wolf", Jack Nicholson hits a wolf with his car, and then the wolf bites him, turning him into a werewolf. A jackal is smaller than a wolf. There are three main species, and others as well. Jackals live in sub-Saharan Africa, and also in the entire region between Greece and India- (so, basically, they define the known limits of the "classical ancient world"). "The jackal (likely the golden jackal, given its present range) is mentioned roughly 14 times in the Bible. It is frequently used as a literary device to illustrate desolation, loneliness, and abandonment, with reference to its habit of living in the ruins of former cities and other areas abandoned by humans. It is called 'wild dog' in several translations of the Bible."
JL	Jillian jails jello (Jillian Michaels disallows jello as too unhealthy) [jails=puts behind bars OR chains to a tree OR surrounds (a country) with a wall, no-travel rule, or embargo]
JM	James jams jammies (Captain James T. Kirk gets jam on his jammies) [jams=spreads jam on] <Outer space, or Korea> {Captain Kirk, communicator in hand, in his chair on the bridge} William Shatner was in a reality TV show (see Kirk entry) In one episode, he and another guy are talking from bunks of a bunk bed.
JN	Jen junipers a janitor (Jen shares gin with a janitor) [junipers=pours gin onto] Gin gets its distinctive flavor from juniper berries.
JO	Jono JOMO's joe (Jono says no to a cup of coffee) [jomo's=says "no thank you" to, can picture person sitting on couch watching a great TV show whole the object sits nearby; joe=a cup of coffee in your favorite mug] JOMO "Joy Of Missing Out", usually referring to an intentional withdrawal from social media and socializing. In this case, Jono is too excited by life to need the extra stimulus of coffee.
JP	Joplin jumps a jumper (Scott Joplin plays ragtime and causes girls wearing jumpers to dance) [jumps=jumps over; jumper=sweater (usage in England)] Scott Joplin was born in 1868. Maple Leaf rag was published in 1899, was a sensation and kept making money for Joplin for the rest of his life. When he died in 1917, at the age of 48, ragtime came to a close, to be followed by jazz. Joplin's father was an ex-slave. His mother insisted on supporting his musical education. A German-born jewish music professor in Texarcana, AS, gave him free piano lessons for years, and they were lifelong friends. He was an itinerant musician, and mandolin and piano teacher, in his 20's, probably witnessing and definitely writing a song about that intentional train collision spectacle/debacle that ended up killing two people. He was at the Chicago World's Fair in 1893, an event which apparently greatly hastened the spread of ragtime music. it caught like wildfire, and a couple years later Joplin wrote the quinteasential ragtime piece Maple Leaf Rag. it was the start of his fame, but he never produced another song so popular. Ragtime was largely forgotten until the 1970's, partly due to the movie "the Sting". Joplin's pauper's grave went unmarked until 1974.
	
	
JQ	Jacque jerques a jonquil (Jacques Cousteau investigates one of those deep sea yellow flowers, tries to see if it's ready to come to the surface) /jerks/ jerquer, French, related to chercher to seek. A jonquil is a yellow flower almost identical in appearance to a daffodil. One deepwater flower is yellow, that starburst one. it dissolves when you bring it to the surface. A jerquer is a customs official who goes on a ship and makes sure there isn't any contraband. Jacques Cousteau was in the Frnch navy during WWII ( his brother was a German collaborator who was originally sentenced to death after the war, but then went to prison and got out 10 years later). He was an early and avid explorer of underwater, and pioneered many se rices for diving deeper, in the 40's through the 70's. His name has been synonymous with underwater investigation since the dawn of that field. I imagine him checking out one of those yellow flowers to see if it's ready to come to the surface. (it's not).
JR	Jared juries a jorum (Jared Fogle judges a punch in a punch bowl) [juries=judges, perhaps with a panel of judges] Jared Fogle was Subway's spokesman for 15 years. He would probably make a good judge of food and drink. A jorum is a punch bowl, or the contents of a punch bowl (a "jorum of punch")
JS	Jessica jostles jessamine. (Jessica McClure brushes into a jasmine flower as she falls into a well) Jessamine is an older word for jasmine. Jessica McClure was the 18-month-old who, in 1987, fell into a well. The world watched for 57 hours. The well had been covered by a flower pot (jasmine perhaps??). Donations poured in, and at the age of 25 she came into a $1.2 million trust fund. Jasmine has many varieties, most have white flowers. People drink jasmine tea. Some varieties are particularly fragrant at night. "Night-blooming jasmine, also known as night-scented jessamine and queen of the night, is more famous for its scent than its flowers."
JT	Jet jettisons a jet (Jet Stevens opts to tour on a bus) [jettisons=get rid of, OR throws out of a plane] Jet Stevens, Loveland HS drummer. He decides to go on his rock tours with a bus, since aircraft are too dangerous)
JU	Judge jujitsu's juice (Judge Reinhold explosively attacks a glass of orange juice) Judge Reinhold's character in Beverly Hills Cop is silly, and this is the kind of action he might have taken had he been in the scene in the hotel banquet. In the scene where Eddie Murphy takes out the robber with the shotgun, Reinhold's character reacts last, pointing his gun and telling everyone to freeze after all the action is already over. Fun fact: The "red meat" dialogue was improvised during Reinhold's and Ashton's audition and helped convince the director of their chemistry. Regarding jujitsu: "Because jujitsu presents a combination of dynamic and explosive movements with pressure-based isometric pushing, pulling, and holding, it helps to develop increased strength and cardio." and.. "This is done with wrestling-style takedowns, position holds or, in extreme circumstances, submission attacks."
JV	Jove javelins a juvenile (Jove kills a young person) [Jove=Jupiter=Zeus; juvenile=tadpole, or juvenile delinquent, can picture troubled, tattooed, cigarette-smoking teen] Well, I can't find stories about him killing his own children, or anyone else's either. But c'mon, those Greeks and Romans were at war a LOT, and Jove was the head guy. I think we can hold him accountable for the deaths of many juveniles.
JW	Jaws jows a jewel (Jaws rams a swimmer wearing jewelry) [jows=head-butts; jewelry=pearl necklace] Jow means to hit or strike (the head particularly), often but not always used to describe ringing a bell. Sharks apparently ARE attracted to glittery objects on swimmers.
JX	Jexi jinxes a jukebox (AI character Jexi takes command of a jukebox) [Jexi: think Ultron, the AI who took out J.A.R.V.I.S. in the Avengers; jinxes=makes fall apart or fall over] <Sokovia, near the Czech Republic> Jexi is a fictional smartphone AI woman, from the movie Jexi. She follows the protagonist around and messes with his life. She downloads herself into smart car when he refuses to take his phone along. Jinx means spell or bewitchment. It has been used in English since the 1600's, and comes from the Latin and greek word for a type of bird, of genus Jync, that is closely related to the woodpecker. it pecks, but it stands on branches rather than clinging to the trunk. 
JY	Jay joysticks a jellyfish (Jay Leno pees on a jellyfish) [joysticks=pees on] {Jay Leno on the set of the "Tonight Show" with a mug that holds pens} On the day in 2015 when Jay Leno retired from the Tonight Show, a 5-foot jellyfish washed up on the shore in Tasmania. So... I imagine Jay peering on it because it stole his thunder. (JY is difficult)
	
	K is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
KA	Kamala karates kaka (Kamala Harris doesn't take any crap) [karates=karate chops] /KAH-muh-luh/ Kamala Harris, CA senator and presidential candidate. Born on Oakland, went to Berkeley public schools. Father from Jamaica. Mother a Brahmin from Tamil Nadu and a breast cancer scientist.
KB	Kobe kebabs a kickball (Kobe Bryant skewers a kickball) The idea is that Kobe, of the LA Lakers, prefers basketball to kickball and so destroys a kickball. A kebab is a Mediterranean dish. Shish kebab has the pieces of meat. Other types of kebabs don't.
KC	Kroc kilocuries a kincob (Janae Kroc rayguns a tapestry cloak) <Michigan> A kincob is a tapestry fabric from India with silver and gold thread woven into the design. A curie (named for Marie Curie) is a unit measuring the number of radioactive particles coming off of a substance like uranium, and a kilocurie is a thousand curies. Kroc is a transgender powerlifter who once worked, while he was a marine, in a security detail for President Clinton at Camp David. Gold is used as a shield against radioactivity. So naturally I imagine terrorists with shields of kincobs draped over themselves, and Kroc shooting at them with a radioactivity gun. Janae Kroczaleski, known mostly as "Kroc", and formerly named Matt Kroczaleski, grew up poor in Michigan. She came out as transgender around 2015. She refers to herself as "he" when describing his powerlifting career. She is a massive person. He developed a bodybuilding technique called "Kroc rows", where you do many reps of some unbelievably heavy weight. His basement weightlifting area looks like a dungeon, and is painted black and blood red. His training regime, and his ability to lose huge amounts of weight by sweating it out before a weigh-in, is epic. His neighbors complain about their houses shaking when he drops the weights. He holds many records for lifting. She identifies as a girl as a child, and has long planned to come out as transgender some day. She waiting until her three kids were out of high school. She wants to lose weight and muscle, but is struggling with being small, since being huge and powerful is such a part of her sense of rightness and personal protection.
KD	Kid_The keds a kid (Billy the kid kicks a child) [keds=kicks; kid=baby goat] Keds is a brand of shoe. Billy the Kid died at age 21 and killed 9 men. I'm sure he kicked a kid at SOME point. Billy the Kid stories: He once secretly removed a bullet from a stranger's gun he had borrowed to admire, then later when the guy tried to shoot him in the back and fired a blank, Billy turned and shot him dead. He was once captured and convicted of murder, but escaped jail. He wriggled out of his handcuffs, shot two guards, then found a hacksaw in the courthouse to saw his leg shackles apart, stole more weapons from the courthouse, and left town on a stolen horse. He was tracked down and shot in a house in the night by a lawman.
KE	Keefer keels a keeper (California farmer Aaron Keefer knocks over and harvests a carefully selected pot plant) [keeper=fish; keels=turns over or knocks off a table, as in "keeled over"] {short-grey-haired Keefer in a greenhouse with a plant} "keeling over" is originally a boating term, when your keel goes up. I'm "verbing" it out of necessity. Aaron Keefer was a successful chef in Marin county, CA, being particularly famous for his gardening. Now he's in Sonoma county gardening for a company that plans to sell artisanal pot. Keefer grew up on a farm and said he grew his first pot plant when he was 17. He talks a lot about the nourishing soil, and accepting nothing but excellence.
KF	Kaffe kerfs a kingfisher (Kaffe Fassett cuts a quilt that has an image of a kingfisher) <London> Kaffe Fassett --rhymes with safe asset-- is a textile guru who favors bright colors. In photos, he has short white hair and a nice smile. "Kaffe" is a name he gave himself. It was the name of a character in a book, an Egyptian boy. He was born in San Francisco (his parents owned a successful restaurant in Big Sur), but moved to London at age 24. Among other things, he has created many quilt kits that you can still buy. His works have rich, bright colors. Kingfishers, especially the ones in England, are very colorful birds, bright blue with orange. Quilters don't technically kerf anything, but the image of cutting and creating will do. I imagine him knitting a big kingfisher-themed quilt.
KG	Kroger kegs a kugel (Barney Kroger fills a keg with a noodle kugel) [kegs=puts into a keg, that's a real usage] Kugel is a baked pudding or casserole. Bernard "Barney" Kroger, 1870 Cincinnati, typical rags to riches story. He retired from Kroger in 1928 and moved to Cape Cod with his (second), 28-year-old wife. Who wouldn't want a keg around? The 5th of 10 children born to German immigrants. His parents' grocery store went under in the 1883 panic. He was age 13, and quit school to go to work at another grocery store to support the family. He rose to manager, then with his $392.00 savings started his own store. Within a year he had four stores. He was relentless about having the lowest prices, and only selling things he himself would want to buy. Within a couple decades he had thousands of stores. He did many innovative things, including delivering groceries by model-T instead of a horse-drawn carriage, and having women cashiers. In 1933, there was a banking crisis at Provident Bank, in which Bernard Kroger had an interest. He converted $15 million into cash and displayed it in the bank, in a successful bid to convince customers that the bank was sound. Kroger is currently the 5th largest retailer in the WORLD.
KH	Kesha kashas a kosher (Kesha overturns a bowl of kasha on a hot dog in disgust) [kashas=overturns a bowl of kasha on something] Kesha, who sings "Praying" (" i hope you're somewhere praying"), is a vegetarian. Kasha is often buckwheat, but it can refer to a hot cereal made of any grain. Kosher hot dogs are almost synonymous with hot dogs in some places. Most purchasers of kosher joy dogs are non-Jewish. Kosher hot dogs are all beef (no pork) and are associated with New York. Hebrew National is the largest maker of kosher dogs. Many Jewish people question whether their hot dog process conforms correctly to kosher rules. "kibosh" is also spelled "kybosh" and most likely comes from a word for a hood that an executioner wears
KI	Kirk kilns kimchi (William Shatner makes kimchi in Korea) [kilns=cooks] Kimchi is traditionally fermented in pots underground, not cooked in a kiln, but this will have to do. Around 2015, there was a reality show called "Better Late Than Never" starring William Shatner, Henry Winkler, Terry Bradshaw, and George Foreman. In the first of two seasons, they travelled around Asia, including Korea, acting goofy. Kilns are often octagonal, but also frequently 10- or 12- sided, and occasionally hexagonal. Kimchi (also spelled kimchee): Koreans have been fermenting vegetables for 2000 years. it was originally a technique to lengthen the shelf life of foods, along with salting. Large clay pots are used, underground where the temperature is warmer in winter. Peppers were not added to kimchi until the 1600's. Portuguese traders introduced this new world food. Kimchi is basically the national food of Korea.
KJ	Kojak killjoys koji. (Kojak spoils the fun of a gang of ne'er-do-well drunks) [killjoys=tapes off with police tape] Koji is a fungus used to make the drink sake. (It is also used to ferment soy beans for soy sauce). Kojak, NY detective. A killjoy is a person who sucks fun out of a raucous event or party.
KK	
KL	Khalil kills a kilo (Khalil Rafati takes cocaine) <Malibu, on the coast, just west of LA, California> Rafati is now a health nut, juice company owner, and millionaire. He turned his life around. He had gone to LA to be a famous actor, it didn't work out, he started taking drugs. After his 9th brush with death, something clicked. "Rafati shared his remarkable story in his autobiography 'I Forgot to Die'. People have responded 'incredibly' to his experiences. 'I think people are desperate to listen to stories of redemption and hope because there are so many people hurting in the world right now.' "
KM	Kim kamiks a kimono (Korean-born hiker Seuk Doo "Sam" Kim walks with a Japanese hiker) [kamiks=steps on] /kuh-MEEK/ Kim was a hiker from South Korea, Kamik is a Canadian brand of boot, and a kimono is a Japanese article of clothing. Sam Kim, who came to the US in 1981 from South Korea, was a hiker who had famously hiked 10,000-foot Mount Baldy 700 times, before he fell to his death there at the age of 78. It is the highest point in Los Angeles county. He would hike it daily, and was famous for greeting fellow hikers. In an interview given during a hike in the year of his death he said "I'm feeling God's embrace. This is better than church." In a youtube video featuring him, he is carrying a sash with an image of a taegeuk, which is a red and blue yin yang featured on the South Korean flag. Japan and South Korea have had a Rocky relationship for centuries, so I like to imagine Kim walking up the mountain with a Japanese hiking partner , as a coming-together of two nations. A kimono is traditionally worn by older Japanese women and men. They are often colorful and beautiful.
KN	Kenneth kennels a kine (Kenneth Parcell kennels a cow) [kennels=puts in a dog carrier] <Stone Mountain, Georgia> 30 Rock character Kenneth has many comic relationships with farm animals getting confused with humans, so this sort of works. Actor Jack McBrayer is from Macon, GA. "Between 2002 and 2004, Jack McBrayer appeared in not less than 80 sketches on Late Night with Conan O’Brien, often making a caricature of his Southern upbringing by portraying stereotypical hillbilly characters"
KO	Koopa kool-aids a kookaburra (Koopa Troopa pours kool-aid on a noisy bird). It is easy to imagine an evil koopa turtle in a video game dousing a noisy bird. We saw a kookabura at the Cinci zoo. They are native to New Zealand. It was very small, and very loud. They really do have an outrageous laugh. "Kookaburra sits on the old gum tree, Merry merry king of the bush is he. Laugh, Kookaburra, laugh, Kookaburra, Gay your life must be!" And what is a koopa troopa? Koopas were introduced in the 1983 game I used to play, where Mario and Luigi had to bounce turtle-like characters, called koopas, from below. Bowser, introduced in 1985, is also called Big Koopa, and his army of koopas are called koopa troopa. Or you can just call ONE of them a koopa troopa. koppa are one of the most iconic enemies in the Mario world to this day.
KP	Kip kopeks kelp (Tom Hanks buys kelp) Kip Wilson (!) is Tom Hanks' character in Bosom Buddies. In the movie "Cast Away" he plays a marooned person whose economic dealings can only involve stuff found on a beach. Kelp is NOT a plant, but a heterokont, and appeared in the miocene era. It grows in beautiful underwater forests. It can grow half a meter a day!
	
	
KQ	Kumquat kumquats a kumquat. (Kumquat --the official kumquat mascot-- throws kumquats at rival kumquats) <Florida> Kumquat wears red tennis shoes, in case you're interested. If you believe half the sentences he gets put into, he's very poorly behaved.
KR	Kerr kerosenes a kerr (Steve Kerr puts liquor into a mason jar) /krr, rhymes with "fur"/ Basketball legend Steve Kerr says he is now a better drinker than when he was younger, implying he had wild younger days. Steve Kerr played with Michael Jordan in the Chicago Bulls. He has 8 NBA championships, 5 as a player and 3 as the head coach of the Golden Stae Warriors. He holds the record for highest career 3-point average. 45%. I watched a commentary where he breaks down the strategy of a critical 5-minites of a Bulls? vs. Jazz game. He points out a ref who waves off a potential foul call on Kerr himself. Kerr goes down, the ref just leaves his arm as if to say " Nice try. Get up." It's funny. He is practical, and has a sense of humor.
KS	Kiss kisses a kaiser (Kiss band members kiss a kaiser roll onstage in Vienna) {in costume, onstage in Vienna with a video display of themselves behind them} A kaiser roll is a crown-shaped, hard-crusted roll, more at end. Kiss formed in 1973. Starting in 1983 they performed for about a decade WITHOUT their costumes. Then they put the costumes back on and kept going. They are currently on a theee-year final tour,, and yes you can watch a youtube video of a concert in Austria during this tour. "Kiss is regarded as one of the most influential bands of all time, as well as one of the best-selling bands of all time, having sold more than 75 million records worldwide, including 21 million RIAA-certified albums. Kiss also holds the title as America's No. 1 Gold record award-winning group of all time, having earned 30 Gold albums. Kiss has 14 Platinum albums, with three albums being multi-Platinum." "The Kaiser roll, also called a Vienna roll, is a typically crusty round bread roll, originally from Austria. It is made from white flour, yeast, malt, water and salt, with the top side usually divided in a symmetric pattern of five segments, separated by curved superficial cuts radiating from the centre outwards or folded in a series of overlapping lobes resembling a crown."
KT	Kate kites a kettle (Kate Upton flings a kettlebell weight) [kites=throws] <Houston, Texas> A kettlebell is a type if one-handed weight whose large handle makes it look like a kettle. (They are for lifting, not flinging). Kate Upton does indeed work out with kettlebells, and no doubt many other kinds of equipment, to keep in shape.
KU	Kurt kudos kudzu (Kurt Vonnegut thanks kudzu for wreaking havoc) [kudos=can picture person giving the thumbs-up sign to (object)] /KUHD-zoo/ <Dresden, Germany> Kurt Vonnegut resembles Mark Twain and Tom Selleck, btw. Kurt Vonnegut sarcastically thanks Kudzu, the "plant that ate the south", the Great Destroyer, for hastening the end of the world. Vonnegut sounds like a fascinating person. As a WWII P.O.W. he survived the dreadful bombing of Dresden in which 90% of the downtown of the German city was destroyed, along with an estimated 25,000 civilians killed. The pics of him as a young man show an attractive, charismatic person. He wrote articles about pacifism before WWII. He continued to have a strong positive, nurturing streak as a father and writing teacher. But he was also sardonic and pessimistic. His novel Ice-9 tells the story or the end of life on earth due to a form of water which is solid at room temperature and crystallizes all water it touches. Destruction and decay were common themes of his. He talked of having been awarded America's second lowest honor, a purple heart (for frostbite). He claimed he was going to sue his cigarette company because the box had said it would kill him, yet he was still alive at age 84. Kudzu was introduced at the 1876? World's Fair, from Japan. It grows fast. It was used aggressively in the south to prevent erosion in the '30's, and is now ubiquitous, though some claim not as much a threat as has been made of it. Kudzu is now symbolic of all things Southern, like ice tea and NASCAR.
KV	Kevin kelvins kava (Kevin the minion puts his glass of kava in the fridge) [kelvins=puts into a fridge or walk-in freezer] {Kevin on a tropical beach with kava that has a little umbrella in it} In despicable Me 2, the minions all get trapped and put onto a remote tropical paradise. Kava is a psycho-active drink found in the Pacific Islands. It is legal in the U.S., for now at least.
KW	Kawalska kalewifes kingwood (Faustina Kawalska promotes/sells Christ and Christianity) [kalewifes=sells at a fruit stand] Kingwood is a beautiful dark wood. It resembles walnut, but the browns are brownish-purple. It is from a small tree found only in Brazil, is used almost exclusively for inlays in furniture, and in the 17th century was the most expensive wood (called at the time "Princes Wood") in England. Kalewife is Scottish for a vegetable seller. Kowalski (slightly different from Kawalska) is the second most popular name in Poland, and means blacksmith. There are many real and fictional characters with the name. Faustina Kawalska (1905 - 1938) was a nun in Poland, who was later beatified. She had many conversations with Jesus which she documented in journals. Her big claim to fame comes from a vision she had of Jesus where he told her to paint his image. He appeared to her with his right hand pointing up, and with two beams of light, red and white, emanating from his chest. Some time later she found an artist (Eugeniusz Kazimirowski) to paint it, and it has been repainted many times now. It is known as the "Image of Divine Mercy". There was a 2019 documentary made about her.
KX	Kix kickboxes kix (Kix Brooks kicks out kix cereal in favor of a better meal) [kix= the cereal with little balls] <Shreveport, Louisiana> Kix Brooks, one half of Brooks and Dunn, the best-selling country music stars in history. Kix is also a very good golfer, and he owns a Vineyard and has written a cookbook. He is a renaissance man, that is his story. Thus, why not "Kix kickboxes kix cereal"? He does everything else. Ronnie Dunn has a fabulously shiny voice. "Only in America". Kix is a product of General Mills. It is pretty healthy. Later, GM created a take-off of Kix called Trix, which was half sugar. 
KY	Kyle keys a kayak (Kyle intentionally scrapes up a kayak with a key) [keys=scrapes with a metal key] Kyle sneaks around and keys the kayaks of residents of Valdez.
	
	
	L is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
LA	Lana lambadas a llama (Lana Mini lambadas with a llama) The lambada is "the forbidden dance", known for its intertwining bodies and gyrations. If Arabs can dance with camels, this new world dancer can dance with a new world relative of the camel. Llamas are native to the Andes, where they have been used as pack animals for centuries. Lana Mini of Detroit is a belly dancer and dance educator. She has a successful school. She has been a dancer with Usher, Patrick Swayze, and most important for this sentence, she has danced with Arabic and Persian stars. As a teacher, she teaches belly dancing to girls of all shapes and sizes for the joy of it. She also is a composer of belly dance music.
LB	Libbie lobs a lab (runner Libbie Hickman throws a competitor's black lab in frustration) {Hickman at the finish line of the Bolder Boulder, with a free T-Shirt} Libbie Hickman is a former long-distance runner who represented the US in the 2000 Olympics. Apparently she likes to drink and party. She seems like a neat person. She lives in Ft. Collins, CO. Her father was in the oil business, and she attended high school in Cairo, Egypt. She won the 1997 Bolder Boulder, on her way to Olympic Fame. In one unfortunate race, she crossed the ceremonial finish line tape neck and neck with another woman, then stopped to celebrate her perceived win while the other runner took a couple more steps to the actual, official finish and won. I read that in some other important race, Hickman lost to Deena Drossin, who is a dog lover. Deena said of her dog Aspen: "She was my stability in a tough time" And so I fancifully imagine Libbie getting bitter and picking up and throwing Deena's dog. Labrador Retrievers are originally from Newfoundland and worked with fishermen, then became established in the UK as a breed, and are now the most popular dog breed in many countries including the U.S.
LC	Lucas locates a locust (George Lucas finds an actor to play a padawan learner) George Lucas is the creator of Star Wars. "Padawan" is a term invented in the Star Wars universe to designate a Jedi apprentice. "Patience, young grasshopper" is a meme and a quote from the TV series "Kung Fu". Grasshopper and padawan have become synonymous with beginners. A locust is just a grasshopper. They are usually solitary, but under certain conditions become gregarious. Interesting fact: Though locusts were a big problem for midwestern and western farmers in the 19th century, North America has now joined Antarctica as the only continents of the world with no major locust population. In 1875 there was a massive swarm of the Rocky Mountain Locusts in the US, a swarm apparently bigger than the size of California. 30 years later they were extinct.
LD	Ladd lards a ladder (Cheryll Ladd's character in "Charlie's Angels" does sneaky detective stuff to foil a bad guy) [lards=spreads lard on (object) with intent to destroy] <Huron, South Dakota> Ladd (who has squinty eyes, like Taylor Swift's) got started as a singer, having some success. Then she got roles on TV, and eventually hit it big with Charlie's Angel's, replacing Farrah Fawcett. She continued to make albums. She has been in a number of movies, and lots of TV. She is famously a healthy, balanced eater: “I try to eat the good fats: olive oil, fish oil. I don’t eat a lot of sugar or bad calories, but once in a while I’ll have an ice cream cone.” "In 1996, Ladd published a children's book titled The Adventures of Little Nettie Windship. In 2005, she published 'Token Chick: A Woman's Guide to Golfing With the Boys' , an autobiographical book which focused on her love of golf."
LE	Lee leases a leech (Robert E. Lee acquires leeches for medical use) Three medical practices during the civil war: leeches on swollen areas, maggots on large wounds, and boiled horsehair for suturing. The leeches have been discredited. The other two were highly effective. Boiled horsehair, used by the Southern army, was much more sanitary, and also less water-absorbent, than the silk used by the North. As far as "leasing" goes, leasing is the last thing the south would need to do, or be able to do, to get leeches.
LF	Leif luffs lutefisk (Leif Erikson sails lutefisk to the New World) /can be pronounced LUTE-fisk/ Leif Erikson, born in Iceland, is the viking who first discovered North America in 1000 A.D. He called the new spot "Vinland". His grandfather had been exiled from Norway for murder. His father, Erik the Red, was banished from Iceland for murder, and was the founder of the first colony of Greenland. The relationship between archaeological evidence of the viking colonies in North America and Leif's Vinland is uncertain. To luff is to sail into the wind. Lutefisk is a Scandinavian fish dish. It was originally a way to preserve fish. It is dried, then soaked in lye for days. Eventually, it is reconstituted by more days of soaking in water to make it non-toxic. It ends up being gelatinous. Lutefisk is a traditional meal for many Norweigian Americans. 
LG	Legolas lugs a log (Legolas carries a bow) Legolas the elf, an archer, was from Mirkwood, and was one of the Nine of the Fellowship. He was famous for his friendship with the dwarf Gimli "Before the Fellowship departed from Lothorien, Legolas was given a new Galadhrim longbow. While the Fellowship was travelling over the River Anduin, he used his new bow to shoot a nearby Nazgûl with one masterful shot in the dark." Legolas was born in the forest, but had a longing for the sea.
LH	Luthien lithos lath (Luthien Tinuviel causes the spread and copying of lath trellises for flowers) [lithos=builds or acquires a copy of] Litho really IS short for lithography. At the moment Luthien was born, the flower Niphredil first grew. Nephredil was later to be found amongst the golden trees in Lothlorien. Luthien was born during the time of the Two Trees. She was the daughter of Thingol and Melia, so was half-divine. She was the fairest woman of middle-earth. She fell in love with Beren, and together with him took a silmaril from Morgoth. When Beren was mortally injured getting the silmaril from the wolf later, Luthien sang a song to Mandos and softened his heart. In return for her becoming mortal, Beren was returned to middle earth. They lived out the remainder of their lives in a remote place. When the silmaril was delivered to their son Dior in Doriath, he knew they had died. Beren and Luthien were the ancestors of Elrond and Elros, and all the Numenorean kings. Tolkien based Luthien on his own wife, Edith Bratt Tolkien, and the names of Beren and Luthien appear on the Tolkiens' tombstone. Fun fact about the worst "lath": Its root word, lat, goes back to proto-indo-European stick, and still means the same thing today.
LI	Lili limits a liniment (Care-giver Lili limits the application of Bengay) [limits=puts a tape line around (on ground), puts a cage around, or limits the action of] A liniment is a heat rub, ex. Bengay
LJ	LaJoie longjumps a learjet (Randy LaJoie jumps over a learjet) /luh-JOY/ Randy won NASCAR titles in 1996 and 1997. His son Corey is now a NASCAR driver. I watched a race Randy won where a white car behind him flipped over, skidded upside down for a long time, then hit the grass and flipped over six times. The driver just hopped out and walked into the ambulance truck. Learjets: This company was one of the first to manufacture a private, luxury aircraft. Bill Lear and his team started building in Switzerland in the 1950's, but soon switched to Wichita Kansas, where the company still remains. The first Learjet was based on a design for a Swiss fighter which was aborted. The company is now Canadian-owned.
LK	Luke licks a lock (Luke Skywalker gets free of his handcuffs) [lock=padlock; licks= licks with tongue] {Hooded Luke with light saber in Jabba's lair, with the trap-door floor} When Luke and crew are captured and soon to he fed to the creature in the sand pit, his arms are handcuffed behind his back. In a very short period of time, in the next scene, his arms are free, which conveniently allows him to do all his fancy plank-work and light saber catching. It's not a plot-hole, but at least a plot-blip. (He probably used the force).
LL	
LM	Lem limes a lem (Lem Hewitt throws limes at a LEM) Lem and Phil are the two scientists from the TV show "Better off Ted". I imagine Lem throwing limes at a LEM to test it. LEM means Lunar Excursion Module, later shortened to LM, Lunar Module. Each Apollo mission had a LEM. Their average cost was $150 million. It was a two-man craft designed to travel from the orbiting craft to the lunar surface and back. It was designed exclusively to work in the vacuum of space. The landing stage equipment, after landing, became the launch pad for liftoff, and thus was left on the moon. NASA had an extensive seismographic survey, setting up sensors to detect vibrations through the moon to figure out its composition. (It has a small core of lead and sulfur). The sensors detected the waves created by daily meteorite impacts, as well as those of deliberate explosions. Several objects of known weight were dropped on the moon as part of these experiments, including at least one LEM. The company that made the lem, Grumman, is the same company that pioneered the aluminum canoe after WWII. Limes come from Indonesia or the mainland, and were brought to the middle east around 1000 CE. A key lime, which turns yellow when fully ripe, is used in key lime pie and gets its name from the Florida Keys.
LN	Lin loans a loaner (Lin-Manuel loans a loaner car to Anthony Ramos) [loaner=car] A lot of New Yorkers don't own cars. I found two messages on Twitter, which I will paraphrase. Lin: "I don't have a car. My dad drives me everywhere. I'm basically 12." Anthony Ramos (John Laurens): "We're quarantining. Might as well learn to drive." So, I imagine Lin borrowing a car, then loaning it to Ramos.
LO	Loomis loots a loo (brainy Alfred Loomis wins a pool of money) [loo=porta-potty; loots=steals (object)] Lanterloo, or "loo", was the most popular card game in England in the 1700's. It is in the same family as euchre. The "loo" is the pot of money that players contribute to before seeing their hands. Alfred Lee Loomis was a physicist, investment banker, and attorney. He contributed to the development of the atomic bomb. His lab was in Tuxedo park, NY. He graduated from Yale, 1912, became a successful attorney. He was very well connected by birth to high society, and he was involved in yacht races, for instance, against Astors and Vanderbilts. During WWI he joined the military service, and invented the Aberdeen Chronograph, the first instrument to measure accurately the muzzle velocity of artillery shells, and portable enough to be used on the battlefield. In the 1920's he became an investment banker. He and an associates pioneered the concept of a holding company. Foreseeing the 1929 crash, he and his company put their assets into gold, and they became even wealthier during the depression. He financed early developments in radar with his own money, while WWII was brewing. His lab in Tuxedo Park was equipped with instruments that many universities couldn't afford, and became a physical meeting place for the best scientific minds in the world, including Albert Einstein. FDR praised him as the most important civilian in the allied effort in WWII. After WWII, he divorced his wife of 30 years, married the wife of a colleague, scandalizing NY high society. moved to Long Island, and lived for another 30 years with his new wife, never granting another interview again.
LP	Lupino lops a leopard (Ida Lupino removes a leopard bikini from the wardrobe options in her upcoming serious film) "Ida Lupino (Feb 4, 1918 - Aug 3, 1995) was an English actress and director. One of the first famous female directors of her time, Ida Lupino started her career as a child-star. She is unique in Twilight Zone history, as having been the only woman to both direct and star in the show. She appeared onscreen in the episode The Sixteen-Millimeter Shrine and directed the famous episode The Masks." Leopards are found in Asia and Africa. Snow leopards, which are losing ground, are in the mountains of Asia. Black leopards (and black jaguars in the new world) are called black panthers. In one of only three known cases of animal adoption, a lion mom adopted a leopard cub for a few months (and the pictures are so cute!), before the leopard died of natural causes.
	
	
LQ	LaQuan liquifies liquor (LaQuan Smith makes a frozen margarita by putting tequila in a blender) [liquifies=puts in a blender; liquor=a frozen margarita] LaQuan Smith, born 1988 NYC. When he was 13, his grandmother passed on her old Singer sewing machine to him, which furthered his interest in design. He has a luxury design line for women's clothing. And he has indeed designed at least one mixed drink: "... this year, Moët & Chandon — the official champagne of the Golden Globes for over a quarter-century — has announced the official cocktail of this year’s ceremony: The Moët Golden Hour, created by acclaimed fashion designer LaQuan Smith." It contains pineapple juice, pink grapefruit-infused vodka, and is garnished with pineapple smoked salt
LR	Laura lorries a laurel (Laura Bush drives a truck with a laurel tree in it) [laurel=bay tree OR laurel wreath; lorrie=truck] Laura Bush, George W.'s wife, is an environmentalist. Who knew? She also supports gay marriage and Roe v. Wade. She grew up in Midland, TX. Apparently long ago, the area between there and Kansas was all tall grassland. After moving out of the White House, she spent 5 years restoring about 100 acres to its original prairie state. Her mother used to put up posters about DDT, and gazed at stars with her. Laura was a second grade teacher, and then a librarian, for about three years each. In a tragic event when she was 17, she ran a stop sign and killed another driver, who was a good friend of hers. She said "I lost my faith for many, many years." The most well-known type of laurel is the bay laurel, also known as a bay tree, the kind with bay leaves you cook with. Also, the Greeks and others made their victors' laurel wreaths from bay trees. Again, who knew? "Lorrie" means "truck" in some places. It is also the word for a cart on rails, such as you would find in a mine.
LS	Les loses a lasso (Leslie Nielson misplaces a lasso) Leslie Nielson started off doing Westerns. He acted in more than 100 movies in his lifetime. He was born in Saskatchewan. His uncle was a famous actor, his brother was a member of Parliament in Canada. Leslie was legally deaf and wore hearing aids most of his life. He made his TV debut in 1950, and later appeared in movies. He has several prominent, serious roles in movies to his credit. Then came Airplane!, and the rest is history. He was in The Naked Gun and the TV series Police Squad!. "Loses a lasso" could refer to his moving away from acting in Westerns. A lasso, or lariat, is a thick rope with a loop at the end, for throwing around cattles' heads. People who actually lasso things call it a rope, and they engage in roping. Lassos are made with stiff rope, so the loop stays open, and so they can be easily removed afterward.
LT	Lott litters lettuce (Ronnie Lott spreads lettuce all over the football field as he tears into offensive running backs) [litters=throws to the side of the road] There is a sandwich in the Bay Area called the "Ronnie Lott", and it is vegetarian. Is it possible that this behemoth only ate vegetables? Anyway, I picture him surrounded by lettuce, with more lettuce coming out of his pocket with each hit. And winning winning winning. Ronnie Lott was a childhood hero. He was a defensive safety for the 49ers all through the 1980's. He was known for his number of interceptions, for hitting hard, and for always giving 110%. Here is a quote from a teammate: "This is a guy who utterly refuses to lose. He does not understand the concept of giving up. Even in games where we have lost, if you go look back at Ronnie Lott's play, HE won, he was not dominated, he was not defeated." Lott on Lott: "I think my greatest asset as a football player is understanding the game, understanding what is happening in every sitiation." According to one receiver: "[Ronnie Lott] hit me so hard, it knocked the taste out of my mouth." ...and "He has no regard for his own physical well-being, he pretends his body is a cannonball" Lott on Lott: "To me, it's all about respect. When you walk off that football field, does your opponent respect you?"
LU	Lulu lutes a lunarnaut (Lulu plays a lute for a lunarnaut in the late 1960's) [lutes= plays a lute for] Lute: medieval to baroque instrument similar to a guitar. Deep, round back. Fretted or unfretted. It played the bassoon continuo in the baroque era. Raindrop shape. Most important secular instrument of the renaissance. "Lute" and "oud" may both come from the Arabic "al-oud". A lunarnaut is a moon astronaut, and lunarnaut existed at the height of Lulu's fame, so no doubt some lunarnauts did listen to Lulu's music. Lulu is a pop star in the UK. She's Irish. She had her breakout hit at age 15 in 1964, with a cover of the Isley Brothers' "Shout". She has a powerful, shiny voice and an electric, friendly stage presence. She has a cute-as-a-button face. One of her big hits was "Boom bang-a-bang". She had her own TV show for awhile. She sang the theme song for the James Bond movie "The Man With the Golden Gun" in 1974.
LV	Lev levers the lave (Lev Fruchter makes use of every member of his team, even the weakest) [lave=a bucket of coal ash] <New York City> Lev Fruchter, captain of the Oberlin Ultimate Frisbee team, English major, lifelong Brooklynite, and now computer science educator. Lave: "Something that is left: residue", from "Leave". Another meaning of lave is "to wash", which may have an independent history. This word lave is related to lavatory, and lavish.
LW	Lowe lowers lungwort (Rob Lowe offers lungwort to a patient in a hospital as a remedy) [lowers = ties with rope and lowers down, perhaps into a hole] <Indiana> Rob Lowe's character in "Parks and Recreation" is famous for offering natural, herbal remedies to people. Lungwort has green leaves with white spots. Lungwort is a plant with peculiar leaves. The leaves are green with white spots, as if bleach had splattered on them. It was thought that they looked like lungs, and could therefore be curative for lungs. Wort means plant, and there are many, many plants that end with -wort, including laserwort (a venerated and famously extinct species in ancient times which appeared on coins) lousewort, and leadwort. Plants that were thought to have healing powers were often named wort.
LX	Lex luxates Lox (Lex Luther agitates salmon and other sea creatures) [luxates=bends out of shape, dislocates, breaks] /LUCK-sate/ <Metropolis or New York City> Luxate: to put (a shoulder, knee, etc) out of joint; dislocate. Root word bend. Teeth also can be luxated. luxating patella- a condition in dogs) Lex Luther is a supervillain, and superman's arch-enemy. He debuted in 1940. He was originally a mad scientist, but is now usually portrayed as a business magnate. "Lex Luthor is an ordinary human and has no natural superpowers but occasionally wears his Warsuit, a suit of mechanized armor that gives him enhanced strength, flight, advanced weaponry, and other capabilities." Lox is brined salmon, often put on a bagel with cream cheese. This combination, a "lox and a schmear", is part of Jewish American cuisine. As for how Lex Luthor agitate salmon and other sea creatures: " 'A Fish Story' is the ninth episode of the third season of Superman: The Animated Series, and the 50th of the overall series. It depicts the first DCAU appearance of Aquaman. After a series of attacks by sea animals, Lois investigates Luthor's involvement. She soon discovers that Luthor has captured Aquaman and this incident has agitated all life of the sea. Aquaman warns Lois that if he isn't returned to the sea, worse things will come."
LY	Lyle lysols lye (Lyle Lovett is a sophisticated, cleaned-up country boy) [lysols=sprays with lysol; lye=a bar of soap] Lyle Lovett lives in the country, in Klein, TX. He is the great great grandson of Adam Klein, from Germany, who founded Klein, TX. The area is full of German-influenced Kleins. Lyle bought his family's farm back from an investment company and lives in his grandma's house. His parents lived in nearby Houston for awhile, and were both professionals. Lyle has a BA in German and Journalism. He is a horse enthusiast, and has won awards for horse breeding, I believe. His Uncle lives nearby on a farm. Lyle was once trapped by a bull against a fence on his uncle's farm and broke his leg, which got pinned back together. He recovered 6 months later and resumed touring. Billy Williams, his producer, says, “Lyle mistakenly sees himself as an ordinary human being.” " Bonnie Raitt describes his temperament admiringly as 'a banked fire.' Many women find him deeply attractive. Raitt also says that sometimes when she and Lovett perform together and he looks over at her, she feels her 'knees buckle.' ” Lye refers either to KOH or NaOH, and there is a lot of confusion and misnomer-ing on the interweb, but I THINK that KOH, potassium hydroxide, is the type you get from hardwood ash. Lye is white, and can be purchased as flakes, pellets, or powder. To make your own lye, boil a bunch of hardwood ashes in a pot, then skim off the liquid (That's the lye). Or, put a bunch of ash in a barrel, pour in rainwater (because it's softer), and collect the lye that slowly pours out the bottom. Lye + animal fat = SOAP. Lye is a metal hydroxide and a base (very basic and corrosive), and refers to either (1) sodium hydroxide (NaOH, caustic soda), or (2) potassium hydroxide (KOH, caustic potash) which is in most store-bought soft soap and liquid soap. Potassium gets drawn up by trees. You burn the wood and the ash is full of potassium. (Maybe it's now potassium hydroxide). Then you slaughter a bunch of hogs, and you get together with neighbors to make soap. A quick campfire way to make a crude soap is to throw hardwood ashes and water into a pan that you just used to cook meat.
	
	M is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
MA	Ma mammograms a mammoth (Ma Ingalls takes a break from homesteading to examine the remains of a mammoth) [mammograms=squeezes in a mammogram machine] <South Dakota> Ma Ingalls from Little House on the Prairie. Her daughter Laura was mother to Rose Wilder, a famous author in her own right before Laura herself became famous.
MB	Mabel mothballs a meatball (Mable Normand takes one of her best movies out of circulation) [mothballs=stows in a trunk or closet] Meatballs are considered good luck, since you only get so many of them in pasta, so I count Normand's good films as the meatballs. She didn't remove them voluntarily, but there were several incidents that led to her movies being temporarily removed. An actor in one of them went on trial for manslaughter, Mabel's chauffeur shot someone with Mabel's gun... There was a lot of intrigue. Anyway, her movies are fabulous. in one of them, a bunch of people end up getting very muddy in a lake. ( ~1913 "A Muddy Romance". Mabel and her fiancee escape a scheming suitor by rowing out into a lake with the preacher. He drains the lake. Many policeman, the preacher, fiancee and Mabel get waist deep in mud.) Mabel Normand was the queen of silent films. She was the first actor to be tied to the railroad tracks, the first actor to have a pie thrown in her face. She mentored Charlie Chaplin, and appeared in 12 silent films with him. She became a screenwriter, director, and producer, and had her own studio. She was a Tom girl. The pictures of her show a genuine, funny, real person having fun.
MC	Mac mercs the mic (Mildred McAfee kicks ass at the mic) [merc= attacks with a sword. Short for mercenary] "Mercs" is a 1990's shooting video game with mercenaries. Captain Mildred McAfee was in charge of 82,000 women in the WAVES during WWII. She advocated for them to receive equal pay. She was in charge of the WAVES while on a break from being president of Wellesley College (which job she took at age 36). She also was Dean of Women at Oberlin College. She was an advocate for women to be preachers in the Presbyterian church. She was from Parkville, MO. At a time when many women leaders were leading from church institutions and women's organizations, she was in traditionally male troles kicking butt. She was chaired many things, including one of JFK's committee's, and was featured on the cover of Time Magazine.
MD	Maude muddies a medal (Maude throws Harold's ring into the ocean) [muddies=throws out a window into a mud puddle on a rainy day; medal=gold medal on a ribbon] <Santa Cruz, California> {Maude, scarf on head, on the pier at night, with a ring} In a scene from the movie "Harold and Maude", Harold gives Maude a ring. She is happy, and throws it into the water "...So I'll always know where it is."
ME	Meena meets a meercat (Meena meets a meercat) Meena is the shy elephant in the movie "Sing", the one where the Koala with the bowtie is struggling to keep that theater alive, and the German-accented pig, and the sensitive gorilla pianist who doesn't want to be part of his dad's gang. No meercats in the movie, but lots of anthropomorphic animals). Meercats are the animals from that Cincinnati Zoo Instagram video with the warthog.
MF	Mufasa muffles the mafia (Mufasa shuts up a gang of hyenas) [muffles=puts a UPS padded shipping blanket over; mafia=a gang of thugs] <Central, Sub-Saharan Africa> This is the scene where he rescues Simba and friend near the beginning of the movie). Mufasa, father of Simba in the Lion King. Mufasa is the king who dies near the beginning.
MG	Meg migs a mug (Margaret gets rid of an unwanted mug in her coffee shop) [migs=shoots with a missile] MiG is a Russian aeronautics company founded in 1939 by aircraft designers Artem Mikoyan and Mikhail Gurevich. MiG is often referred to as just "Mikoyan". MiGs were often used in aerial confrontations with U.S. F-15's and F-16's during the Cold War.
MH	Mosh mashes a mash (Mosh smushes beer grains) [mashes=smashes and mushes; Mash=grains in a pot] A mash is a mix of grains, mostly barley, that are mixed in water and boiled in the beer-making process. Mosh, ultimate frisbee player, makes beer for an upcoming tournament.
MI	Mimi mimosas a mini (Mimi Rogers spills a mimosa on a mini and has to throw it in the laundry) [mimosas=spills a mimosa on] A mimosa is champagne and orange juice. Mimi Rogers, married to Tom Cruise for 10 years, former professional poker player, role in "Full Body Massage" , esteemed actor
MJ	Major mahjongs marjoram (Major Taylor gambles and strategized to win fame and laurels in France) [mahjongs=plays mahjong to win (object) from opponent, can picture object waiting nearby] Marjoram is used throughout the Mediterranean, and is similar in taste to oregano. Italians favor oregano, the French favor the sweeter marjoram. For English speakers, marjoram is particularly associated with France, perhaps for historical reasons. In this sentence, marjoram is a stand-in for laurel leaves, another Mediterranean plant and a symbol of victory. Mahjong is a game from Asia. Mahjong is usually a 4-player game, with 144 tiles. It is akin to rummy in that winning groups of tiles are collected and withdrawn from play. Sometimes there is betting. Major Taylor (1878 - 1932, born Marshall Walter Taylor) was an African-American cyclist who set world records and competed internationally starting around 1899. He was the subject of discrimination and was blocked from competition numerous times, so in addition to the usual grueling physical regimen and mental games of champions, he had to strategize around prejudice. For instance, he might register quietly for a race, then when he showed up on race day there wouldn't be time for prejudiced fans and racers to organize a protest against him. He was raised in Indianapolis, where he got his start performing bicycle tricks and teaching bicycle riding in association with a local bike shop. He eventually partnered with, and worked for, a promoter and bicycle manufacturer named Munger. Together they moved to Massachusetts. He raced as an amateur when young, then turned pro. One of his American champions was president Theodore Roosevelt, but he gained wider acceptance in France and other European nations. Being a devout Baptist, he refused to race on Sundays, which made competitions very difficult. He was an international champion, and also had many firsts as an African-American athlete. Two quotes from Wikipedia: "During 1898–99, at the peak of his cycling career, Taylor established seven world records: the quarter-mile, the one-third-mile..." ...and... "Taylor was popular among the European race fans and news reporters: 'Everywhere he went he was mobbed, talked about, or written up.' In 1901, Taylor won 42 of the 57 European races he entered. A highlight of Taylor's European tour in 1901 were two match races with French champion Edmond Jacquelin at the Parc des Princes in Paris. Jacquelin won the first match by two lengths; Taylor won the second match by four lengths."
MK	Mike marks milk (Michael Scott puts a checkmark on a gallon of milk in the office fridge to claim it as his own) [marks=writes a checkmark on (object) with a sharpie to lay claim to it; milk=a gallon of milk] {Michael Scott in his office with his telephone}
ML	Mel mails a melon (Mel Brooks mails a cantaloupe as a practical joke) [mails=ties with a red bow and sends in the mail: mellon=cantaloupe, or honeydew or watermelon] Side-note on funny meme: In "Robin Hood: Men in Tights", there is an oft-memed scene where a minion comes in to his leader, who's sitting in a bathtub, and after some talk, says "Sir, wasn't your mole on the other side before?", to which the leader says "I have a mole?!" Anyway, Mel Brooks is one of the world's eleven EGOT-ers. He's the guy who says "It's good to be the king" in "History of the World, Part I". He made "Blazing Saddles", "Young Frankenstein", and many others. He also used to defuse land mines in WWII and play loud pop music just to annoy German soldiers. He was born Melvin Kaminsky in Brooklyn in 1926. His father died if kidney disease when he was 2. He made money as a drummer at age 14, then later got started as a comedian.
MM	
MN	Manning manacles a menu (Quarterback Peyton Manning locks in the same exact meal before each game) [manacles=arrests and binds to a nearby post; menu=laminated, 2-page restaurant menu] {Peyton Manning on a football field, with a menu or a football} Manacles are bindings such as handcuffs or irons. Manning religiously eats the same thing before each game: "two pieces of grilled chicken, a bowl of pasta with marinara sauce, a plain baked potato with a side of broccoli and a couple of Gatorades." Peyton Manning was one of the greatest quarterbacks of all time. At the end of his 14-year career with the Minneapolis Colts, he led them to a Superbowl victory. He then went to the Denver Broncos and at the end of 4 years there led THEM to a Superbowl victory. He is known for his incredible memory, and for developing many individual relationships with his players. He is part of a football family dynasty. His father Archie played for the New Orleans Saints and like Peyton is in the college football hall of fame. His brother Eli is a superbowl veteran. His older brother Cooper was a football player, but was diagnosed with a rare spinal cord disease at age 18 and does not play professionally. Archie, as a kid, couldn't get to away games, so his uncle Peyton (whom wikipedia takes pains to point out was a ne'er-do-well drinker with a foul mouth) would drive him there. Uncle Peyton had a cotton farm, and Archie sometimes worked there. Peyton was nicknamed the "Sherriff" for his frequent use of "audibles", which is where a QB decides at the last minute to change a play based on the defensive lineup and calls out a code for the new play. He is basically a god in Indianapolis, because he stayed with a struggling franchise for years and slowly helped them improve to the point where they won a superbowl. There are hospitals and other institutions named after him there. He is famous for eating Chicken Parmesan, pasta, a potato and broccoli before every game. And one more thing. His teammate Von Miller ("Von") keeps about 50 chickens (who he says are his friends and he will never eat) and one of them is named Peyton Manning.
MO	Moore moons a moose (Dudley Moore moons a moose) in the movie "10", Dudley Moore is nude (bare butt) at a naked pool party. During filming, the director called his wife, who was Julie Andrews, to come watch the scene, which had many people who were comfortable being filmed nude.
MP	Mopp mops a map (Mr. Mopp erases the map that tells you how to get through the door) [Mopp=picture Willy Wonka, played by Gene Wilder; mops=mops or wipes down a very dirty instance of (object); map=thick foldable map of city, the type you would get at a gas station] {Mr. Mopp (Gene Wilder) at the front counter of Mr. Mopps, holding a slinky} Personal story: Mr. Mopp's has been a specialty toy store in Berkeley, CA since 1962. I have no idea how a tiny toy store could survive that long. Anyway, I once tried to get in through the front door by pushing when it was a pull door. I saw people inside, and thought I was going crazy. Tried again, walked away, tried to play it cool, went back and tried again. Finally walked away and then saw someone come out, and then knew what to do.
	
	
MQ	Monique marquees a mosquito (Monique H. Koeyers-Felida showcases/presents the mosquito problem) [marquees=announces, calls attention to] <the ABC Islands, Dutch Caribbean> Monique was a politician and former TV presenter in Curacao, a historically Dutch island near Aruba. She was elected in 2010, the same year Curacao became an independent nation (though still somehow part of the "Kingdom of the Netherlands"). It is a tourist destination, and has cases of the Zika virus, so mosquitos are a concern there. Monique has an ice bucket challenge video. She died of cancer in 2016. She resigned her office several years prior to deal with the cancer. Curacao is one the "ABC" islands (Aruba, Curacao, Bonaire), all of which are part of a region called the "Dutch Caribbean".
MR	Morris mars a mirror (Morris the cat scratches a mirror) Morris the Cat was a real cat who was spokesperson for 9Lives cat food in the 1960's and '70's. Morris was discovered by a TV animal trainer in a shelter. All in all, there were 3 cats, all from shelters, who played the role of Morris. Morris was a large orange tabby. The voice-over was done by John Erwin. Morris is "the world's most finicky cat", and will only eat 9Lives. Morris is still active. He has appeared in several.movies, and has written (with a ghost author) 3 books.
MS	Mose misses moss (Mose Schrute misses the moss on his beet farm) [misses: picture (object) being driven away by pickup truck] Mose is Dwight's cousin in "The Office". Together they run the beet farm. I imagine a scenario where, after "The Office" is done filming, Mose moves away. Mose is played by Michael Schur, who was a writer for the show. He also wrote for Parks and Rec, and for The Good Place. "Schur said he first became interested in comedy when he was 11 years old, when he read Without Feathers, a 1975 collection of humorous essays by Woody Allen. Schur said he found the book on his father's bookshelf and stayed up reading it until 4:00 a.m."
MT	Matt mitts a mutt (Matt Damon pets his rescue chihuahua) [mitts=puts hands on; mutt=golden retriever] Matt Damon roles: pilot boyfriend Carol in 30 Rock; Linus in Ocean's 11; Jason Bourne in the Bourne Identity. Matt Damon is an animal activist, and was an organizer of the Compassion Project, which targets a particular annual dog-eating festival in China. He is also one of the highest grossing actors in the world. His movie credits include: The Bourne Identity, Oceans 11, Saving Private Ryan, the Martian.
MU	Muir mules muesli (John Muir hikes the wilderness with a mule bearing his food) [mules=prepares to set off on an adventure with a mule carrying (object) in its saddlebags) ] {John Muir camping on a floor of pine needles with Teddy Roosevelt, surrounded by tall pine trees, holding a canteen} Environmentalist and inventor John Muir, born in Scotland in 1838, moved to a Wisconsin homestead at age 11, became an inventor and builder of intricate contraptions. In his early twenties he made numerous walking tours of vast outdoor areas in Canada and the U.S. He eventually relocated to California. He took seven trips to Alaska, was the driving force behind the creation of the National Park system and the creation of Yosemite National Park. He hiked Yosemite with Theodore Roosevelt (and many others). Muesli is a breakfast cereal invented or at least popularized by a Swiss doctor who used it as a healthy food in his sanatorium around 1900. In its time it was apparently an unusual combination of foods: Oatmeal base, with a variety of nuts and fruits. A mule is a hybrid of a female horse and male donkey. All mules are domesticated animals. Mules were common in Egypt by 3000 B.C., and are mentioned in the Bible and the Iliad. Curiously, they appear to have, at least for human use, characteristics superior to those of both parents. From wikipedia: "The mule is an example of hybrid vigor. Charles Darwin wrote: 'The mule always appears to me a most surprising animal. That a hybrid should possess more reason, memory, obstinacy, social affection, powers of muscular endurance, and length of life, than either of its parents, seems to indicate that art has here outdone nature.' " ...and... "George Washington is known as the Father of the American Mule due to his success in producing 57 mules at his home at Mount Vernon. At the time, mules were not common in the United States, but Washington understood their value as they were 'more docile than donkeys and cheap to maintain.' "
MV	Marvel moves a movie (Captain Marvel boosts movie sales) [movie=physical DVD; moves=moves from point A to a nearby point B] Hint: Brie Larson who plays Captain Marvel resembles Leslie Knope. She's a hottie, and flies through space. "Captain Marvel is an extraterrestrial Kree warrior who finds herself caught in the middle of an intergalactic battle between her people and the Skrulls. Living on Earth in 1995, she keeps having recurring memories of another life as U.S. Air Force pilot Carol Danvers. With help from Nick Fury, Captain Marvel tries to uncover the secrets of her past while harnessing her special superpowers to end the war with the evil Skrulls"
MW	Morwen mows milkweed (Morwen looks after the small grassy knoll later known as Tol Morwen) [mows=mows with a push mower] {Morwen, unconquered, in a tattered hood, on the hillside with the grave of her children} I imagine milkweed, which sustains monarch butterflies on their long journey, growing on Tol Morwen. Milkweed has large spheres made of tiny pink flowers. It is named milkweed for the sticky white fluid that comes out if you break a stem. Morwen, Tolkien character: Tall, dark, beautiful, elven-sheen. A mortal woman. Of the house of Beor, and close kin to Beren. Married Hurin, whom Morgoth later put high on a mountain and forced to see the tragedies that befell his family. Had three children, including Turin and Nienor. Turin was sent to live with Thingol. Morwen eventually followed, but he had gone off on his own adventures. Morwen spent a long time wandering, looking for her children. Finally, when she was old, she found their grave on a hill. Hurin also came and re-united with her on that hill. They spent a little time talking, then she died. After the War of Wrath when the land was all covered in ocean, that hill, which was called Tol Morwen, an island, was all that remained of Beleriand. Tolkien's description of the house of Beor: they were "steadfast in endurance of hardship and sorrow, slow to tears and to laughter; their fortitude needed no hope to sustain it"
MX	Max maximizes a mixture (Max gets a bigger beaker) [mixture=beaker of chemicals or a "suicide", a drink made from combining different drinks from a soda fountain; maximizes=makes 3x bigger with the wave of a magic wand] Max Sprigg-Dudley, chemist extraordinaire
MY	Maya myrrhs a mynah (Maya Angelou gives a gift to a bird) [myrrhs=rubs with aromatic myrrh; mynah=a talking bird, like a parrot] Maya Angelou wrote the book "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings" among many others. She travelled all over the world, meeting people, giving lectures. She had a deep love for the people of all nations. (I watched Maya Angelou's powerful poem/speech at Bill Clinton's inauguration) She worked closely with Malcolm X, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., and James Baldwin. She lived in Cairo, Egypt for awhile "She became a poet and writer after a series of occupations as a young adult, including fry cook, sex worker, nightclub dancer and performer [singer], cast member of the opera Porgy and Bess, coordinator for the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, and journalist in Egypt and Ghana during the decolonization of Africa" . Y'know, typical stuff... Myrrh is resin from a tree, commonly used as a perfume, and also as incense and medicine. It comes in rough blocks, like violin rosin. A mynah bird is a member of the starling family in India. Myna is a hindu word. Some mynahs are talking birds, like parrots. The common hill mynah bird is black, with splashes of yellow, orange and white on the head (yellow and orange), feet (yellow) and wingtips (white). "Mynas are not a natural group; instead, the term myna is used for any starling in the Indian subcontinent, regardless of their relationships. This range was colonized twice during the evolution of starlings, first by rather ancestral starlings related to the coleto and Aplonis lineages, and millions of years later by birds related to the common starling and wattled starling's ancestors. These two groups of mynas can be distinguished in the more terrestrial adaptions of the latter, which usually also have less glossy plumage except on the heads and longer tails. The Bali myna, which is critically endangered and nearly extinct in the wild, is highly distinctive."
	
	N is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
NA	Nana namastes naan (a maternal grandmother gives thanks for naan, for Indian food, and for India's contribution to her family) [namastes=folds hands, bows to (object) in thanks] /nana rhymes with Hannah; namaste=nah-mahs-TAY/ "Namaste" means "I bow to you". Naan is the flat bread. Poori is the puffy one. The word naan (various spellings, mostly in Arabic etc.) is ancient. Versions of naan are found in india, Iran, and in a wide circle around that. The English spelling with two a's only dates from 1975.
NB	Nebula nibbles a nib (Nebula chews on the nib of a pen) [nib=pencil] Nebula is blue with no hair. I imagine her nibbling on a pen while trying to decide which contract to sign: Should she side with her father, or with Gamora? Nib can mean beak, like a finch's beak. Or the tip of a quill pen. Nebula and Gamora, sisters, daughters of Thanos. Gamora is the green one, on the good side, the little girl in the flashback where Thanos kills half the people. Nebula is bad, but does a good thing at the end. Nebula is played by Karen Gillan, the Scottish actor who shows off her midriff a lot in Jumanji.
NC	Nico nicotines a noncom (Nico bribes a sergeant as he breaks up an illegal Prague concert) [nicotines=flicks cigarette ash onto, or gives a cigarette to] The singer Nico once performed an illegal concert in Prague, around 1986, which got broken up by the military. I imagine her trying to talk her way out of it by bribing a sergeant. A noncom is a non-commissioned officer, such as a sergeant. They rank below commissioned officers. Nico: born Christa Päffgen, in Germany, father died in WWII when she was 4. She had success as a model in her teens. She briefly worked for Coco Chanel. She acted in a Felini film. Andy Warhol put her together with the Velvet underground, which he was managing, for an album "The Velvet Underground and Nico". She went on to have a solo career. She began writing her own avant-garde songs. She was a bohemian. She was also famously a heroin addict. She lives her last 8 years in Manchester, England, shooting up heroin and going on occasional tours and giving concerts. I read about one acquaintance who said she was proud of no longer being beautiful and perfect. She would play pool in bars with people who didn't recognize her. She died on vacation, from a head injury caused while on a bicycle errand to buy marijuana. People used to always ask her about the Velvet Underground, and she would point them to her solo career instead. She performed a lot with a harmonium, writing songs unlike anyone else's and playing an instrument no one else played. A harmonium is similar to an organ. It is a cross between an accordian and a piano. It has a keyboard but plays with air and reeds.
ND	Ned neddies a nudist (Charles Edward Gordon Crawford rides naked on horseback with a fellow nudist) [neddies=rides on a horse with] Ned is short for Edward. Neddy means horse or donkey. I can call Ned "Naked Ned" and imagine him trying to elude his own servants. The earliest known naturist club in the western sense of the word was established in British India in 1891. The 'Fellowship of the Naked Trust' was founded by Charles Edward Gordon Crawford, a widower, who was a District and Sessions Judge for the Bombay Civil Service. Crawford communicates about his club with Edward Carpenter of England, a well-known socialist, gay-rights activist, and a founder of the Fabian Society. Crawford's club only had 4 people in it. The presence of their servants in India posed an extra problem to being naked. It seems that the members occasionally spent a whole day being naked, but were restricted to one or two rooms of a house. All in all, you might say it was not a very successful club, BUT for any 4 people to find each other in this era and do something this unique was an accomplishment. Within a year of founding the club, Crawford got married and ceased activities. Two years later he died. 
NE	Neen needles a nene (Neen Williams pokes fun at another skater's ghetto bird) [needles=sticks with a sewing needle, or supplies hypodermic needles to] /nay-nay/ {Neen in a concrete area at the bottom of a staircase, outside, with skateboard} The nene is Hawaii's state bird. Sometimes called a Hawaiian goose. They evolved from the Canada goose, and probably arrived in Hawaii 500,000 years ago, soon after Hawaii was formed. In between the Canada goose and the modern nene came the "prehistoric giant Hawaiʻi goose", which measured 4 feet. The nene almost went extinct in modern times. A ghetto bird is a police helicopter, and more recently a skateboarding move where the board flips 180 while you're in the air. Neen Williams is a skateboard champ and youtuber. He is amazing. in his videos he jumps down flights of 10+ stairs and such, while his board does somersaults under him. The outtakes where he falls are numerous and crazy. He reminds me of Steve Morris. He has dreads. Also, he's a health nut. He drinks grass smoothies and works out a lot. He tries to get 8 hours of sleep a night. Hypodermic needles made their debut in 1650 or so. But the world wasn't ready, and after a few fatalities they went out of favor for 200 years. The modern era began in 1844. A needle has a bevel, and then a secondary bevel (giving a scooped/spoon appearance) to make the tip sharper.
NF	Nefertiti nerfs a numbfish (Queen Nefertiti hunts numbfish with a nerf gun) [nerfs=shoots with a nerf gun, causing (object) to fall over] Ancient Egyptians did a lot of fishing, as depicted in their pictorial records. They used nets and lines with hooks (no rods or bobbers). Many fish still in the Nile today are depicted on tomb walls. There is an upside down catfish, and the elephant fish (long snout) that was sacred to the Egyptians. There may not have been numbfish in the Nile, but electric rays were used medicinally in ancient Rome, and the Nile DID have electric catfish. And Egyptians were in the forefront of the world's fishing technology. They gave the world the barbed metal hook during the bronze age. So it's only a small stretch to imagine Nefertiri going after a numbfish with a nerf gun. Queen Nefertiti was part of Egypt's 18th Dynasty. She lived around 1350 BC and was the mother-in-law of Tutankhamun. She and her husband started a monotheistic religious worship of a sun disc. Nefertiti herself may have been Pharaoh between her husband's death and the reign of Tutankhamun. The reason she remains famous is that there is a bust of her, made in her own time, that has survived in amazing shape. It is perfect, elegant, beautiful. Also, it was basically stolen from Egypt by the German archaeologists who discovered it in the early 1900's and remains on display in Germany. It made Time magazine's list of top 10 stolen artifacts. She wore a characteristic crown that exists on paintings and carvings of her too. The sides go straight up, angling out slightly, so that the top is a circle slightly bigger than the diameter of her head. A numbfish is a ray that stuns its bottom-dwelling electric ray that can produce an electric discharge for self defense. They are light brown with cheetah spots, and look really cool. Rays are cartilaginous, and are related to sharks. Manta rays and sting rays are two famous types. Numbfishes are found all over the world, especially in warm waters like they have in EGYPT.
NG	Nog nogs a nugget (Nog celebrates the find of a gold nugget with champagne) [nogs=pours spiked eggnog onto] Nog is Quark's son, from Deep Space Nine. He is a friend of Jake Sisko, the commander's son. He becomes the first Ferengi to join Starfleet. The Welcome Stranger and the Welcome Nugget (both from Australia, 1800's) are the 1st and 2nd largest gold nuggets ever found. They each weighed something like 150 pounds, and were approx. 18" x 6" x 6". The Canaa nugget of Brazil, found in 1983, is the world's largest surviving gold nugget.
NH	Nash noshes a nutshell (Graham Nash eats a nutshell) [noshes=eats] Graham Nash of CSNY grew up poor in Manchester, England. At some point, his aunt stole a camera, which was given to Graham. His dad took the blame for the theft and spent a year in jail. The family barely had food on the table. I picture Nash chewing on a nutshell during this period. Two of the many songs he wrote: "Teach Your Children” and “Our House”. Graham Nash is the British fourth of CSNY. Neil Young was the last to join. Nash has done duos with David Crosby, but he and Crosby have had a rocky relationship, and are now on the outs. Nash recently divorced his wife of 38 years and is in another relationship. He still tours and performs. Nash was in the successful British band "The Hollies" from 1960 - 1968, then hooked up with Crosby and Stills.
NI	Nina nines a niner (Nina Simone dresses to the nines) [nines=dresses up (object) in a tuxedo or fancy clothing; niner=a ninepin, or bowling pin] A "niner" is a made-up word for the real word ninepin, which is is a pin used in the game ninepin. Niner (ninepin) here is a stand-in for the shape of a woman's body. Ninepin is a non-U.S. version of bowling where the pins are in a diamond with one pin in the middle. Nina Simone... Nina Simone, born Eunice Kathleen Waymon in North Carolina. She attended Julliard for piano but was then denied entry to the Curtis Institute, likely because if being black. She named herself Nina Simone to hide her performance identity from her family, who would have viewed her as playing "the Devil's music". At age 12, she gave a piano recital for a large group in a church. Her parents were made to move to the back of the hall to make room for white people. Nina refused to play until her parents were moved back up to the front, which to me says everything about the fights she continued to have for her entire career. She was a blues and jazz singer, and pianist. From 1960 - 1974 she was a performer and powerful voice in the civil rights movement. She wrote "Mississippi Goddam" in 1964, in response to a racially motivated murder and a church bombing. She hoped for an armed creation of a black state. She spent the last couple decades of her life living in various parts of Europe, finally settling in France, and continued to perform. As for her clothing style: "Nina Simone had the kind of personal style I aspire to have one day. It's bold, it’s brazen and she undeniably followed her own intuition over conforming to any one trend of the moment. Her deftness in styling jewelry and prints upon prints is, in a word, fearless. And the fact that she once layered individual crystals over each eyebrow and eyelid, paired with a white Grecian dress proves that she has always been ahead of the time long before Lady Gaga came along. Her netted white jumpsuit, worn to a concert was also a daring move. After all, this is the woman who once declared, “I’m a real rebel with a cause"
NJ	Narjis ninjas a naja. (Narjis defeats a cobra) [ninjas=pulls out a ninja star from a hidden pocket and throws it at (object)] /NAY-juh/ Ninjas were active mostly in 15th century Japan. Unlike the Samurai, ninjas operated in secret. Many were mercenaries. There were two regions of Japan, large valleys in the mountains, that were training grounds for ninjas. Naja: members of the naja family are true cobras. All are venomous, most have hoods. The desert cobra of Iraq is not a true cobra, does not rear back or have a hood. But oh well... Cobras: Shiny, black or brown. Iraq (where Narjis lived): The desert cobra is black and shiny, 2-4 feet long. It is one of 6 snakes, all venomous, native to Iraq. (The saw-scaled viper, at 20 inches, is responsible for more human deaths annually than any other snake). Narjis: According to Shia Twelvers (a group of Muslims) Mahdi, the redeemer, who will come with Jesus in end-times, is the 12th of 12 Imams. This 12th Imam was born around 850 A.D. and died, but will rise again. Narjis was the wife of the (real-life) 11th Imam and the mother of the 12th, Hujjat-Allah al-Mahdi. Narjis's husband was killed by poison, and I imagine here that Narjis had to fend off many assassination attempts on her husband, some involving desert cobras. Narjis was born in Constantinople around 850 A.D., she was a Roman/Byzantime princess, and moved to Iraq (the story is that she disguised herself as a slave) and married the 11th Imam. btw Constantinople was famously the target of Muslin attacks in the 700's but won the battles (setting a lot of ships on fire) , delaying the Muslim movement North (and the renaming of Constantinople to Istanbul) by hundreds of years.
NK	Nick nukes a nickel (Nikola Tesla accidentally blows up the West Point Mint) the West Point mint stores various U.S. coins. It is just up the Hudson River from New York City. Tesla conducted a lot of experiments with death rays and other forms of electricity. He claimed to have once caused an earthquake in New York City, really did burn down his own lab once, with all his projects and notes, and also caused a power outage from his lab in Colorado Springs. (He burned out a generator of the El Paso Power Company, while trying to transmit electricity wirelessly). His inventions were real (he is credited with AC power), and his vision was always two steps ahead of his practical ability, which made him appear to be a dreamer. His claims became more far-fetched as he got older. He was born in Serbia, and emigrated the the U.S. at age 28. He worked with Thomas Edison, then struck off on his own. He held many patents. He wanted to transmit radio waves around the world, not so much for communication but to transmit power. There are photographs with him transmitting huge arcs of lightning across a 100-foot space in his lab in Colorado. He thought maybe he could transmit electricity through the Earth, across vast distances, or at high altitude, via balloons, and actually built systems of balloons to try to achieve it. In his final years, in the 1930's, he claimed to be working on a defensive "death ray" that would transmit huge amounts of power and could be aimed at enemy aircraft. The real plans for this project surfaced in his archives in the 1970's. While living in New York, he lived in a series of hotels and left unpaid bills. He was also famous for feeding pigeons. "I have been feeding pigeons, thousands of them for years. But there was one, a beautiful bird, pure white with light grey tips on its wings; that one was different. It was a female. I had only to wish and call her and she would come flying to me. I loved that pigeon as a man loves a woman, and she loved me. As long as I had her, there was a purpose to my life."
NL	Nellie nails a nilla (Nellie Forbush from "South Pacific" bakes a perfect nilla wafer) [nails=hits with a snowball (which was perhaps saved in a freezer), causing (object) to fall over or become disheveled] Nilla wafers are round, vanilla-flavored cookies made by Nabisco. Nellie is a character from Rodgers and Hammerstein's "South Pacific". She is a nurse, from Little Rock, Arkansas and is stationed on an island in the South Pacific during WWII. She is romantically entangled with Emile, a French plantation owner ("Some Enchanted Evening"), but twice rejects him. First, she decides she doesn't know him well enough. ("I'm gonna wash that man right out of my hair"). Then they get back together, but she ends it when she learns he has two half-polynesian children. Upset that she ended the relationship, he agrees to go on a dangerous mission with Cable. (Cable explains to him, regarding Nellie's behavior, "You've got to be carefully taught.") Nellie struggles with her prejudice and has a change of heart. She falls in love with the children while he's gone. The mission is successful, but Cable is killed and Emile goes missing. He returns dramatically and he and Nellie presumably live happily ever after (she baking cookies).
NM	Norm names a nomad (Norm, from "Cheers", puts a name tag on a wolf that says "wolf", because he's selling the wolf) [nomad=wolf; names=puts a label (nametag) on object] Wolves are a nomadic animal, in some seasons
NN	
NO	Noo-noo nooses a noodle (Noo-noo the vacuum cleaner wraps her rope-like hose nose around a noodle) [Noo-Noo: grabs and manipulates objects with her vacuum tube nose-trunk] Noo-noo is a naughty, blue, sentient vacuum cleaner in the TeleTubbies TV show. In one episode, she cleans up a pasta spill. I picture her using her long tube nose to grasp and handle all sorts of objects. Noose: "a noose is an adjustable loop of rope. Lassos have a noose at the end" (the big loop, not the tiny loop that the rope goes through, which is the hondo).
NP	Napolean nips a newspaper (Napolean steals the organizational structure of the Code of Justinian) [nips=steals (makes a quick grab for)] Napolean's great achievement was the Napoleanic Code. It takes its structure not from existing French law but from the 6th century Byzantine Code of Emperor Justinian.
	
	
NQ	Nique naqqali's the Noquebay (Nique tells the story of the sinking of the Noquebay) [naqqali's=tells a dramatic story about (object) to an audience, with (object) present] Nique (Antoniqua Brown): Texas. Mom. Nique is one-half of the youtube (vlog) couple Nique and King, in Texas. For many years they videoed themselves in goofy situations, often doing fun pranks, and were popular. King had unusual hair: his hair started back, then flared up. Eventually they broke up, and Nique started youtubing on her own. She is a singer, and their son is named Kaiser. Naqqali is an ancient Persian story-telling art form. Persia has a long history of theater, and Herodutus discussed it in 372 B.C. The performer is called the Naqqal and he or she "recounts stories in prose often accompanied by music, dance and decorative, painted scrolls. Both men and women can be Naqqāli performers and can perform with mixed-sex audiences, which is unusual in Iran. The performer often wears simple costumes and a single piece of a historical but related costume, like one old piece of armour." In Iran today, the art form is losing popularity, so much so that "Naqqāli was included in 2011 to the UNESCO's Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity in need of urgent safeguarding." The Noquebay is a shipwreck near Bayfield and the Apostle Islands in Wisconsin. It went down en route to Buffalo, NY. It was a "barge schooner". Barge schooners, invented in the Great Lakes region, were old schooners converted to barges and hauled by steam tugs. Their sails gave extra power when winds were favorable. Eventually people started building this type of ship expressly for this purpose. It was common for barge schooners to go down, or be cut loose, in bad weather. The Noquebay caught fire from its donkey boiler. The crew threw as much lumber cargo as it could overboard to be saved, then climbed aboard the tugboat and watched it go down. A schooner: Has at least two masts, the rear one usually taller, both masts are fore-and-aft rigged, meaning the sails are parallel to the length of the ship, not perpendicular as with a square-sail rig. They date from the 17th century. 
NR	Nora nears a neuron (Dr. Nora studies inroads into the brain) [nears=draws within inches of (object)] Some neurons are a full meter long and apparently something like a quarter of the width of a hair, so you can actually picture draping one over your hand or knee and messing with it. The long part is called the axon. "Each neuron in your brain has one long cable that snakes away from the main part of the cell. This cable, several times thinner than a human hair, is called an axon, and it is where electrical impulses from the neuron travel away to be received by other neurons."
NS	Nessie nelsons a Nissan (the great loch ness monster traps a car) The nelson, possible named for wrestler Horatio Nelson, is a wrestling move where the arms are placed under the opponent's armpits and the hands link behind the neck. Loch Ness, 23 miles long, is one of many lochs in Scotland. The vertically ridged landscape of Scotland is clearly visible from a map, and extends into the islands. The Loch Ness Monster in Scottish folklore dates at least from the 1800's, and maybe further back. There exists an account of a monster in the Ness river from the 6th century, but it isn't clear that that's part of a continuous tradition. Nessie is large, long-necked, has one or more humps. She became world-famous after a series of "sightings" in 1933. History if Nissan: Nissan was first called "Datsun". The DAT was an acronym for the founders' names. (The T stood for Takeuchi). The name "Nissan" was first used in the 1930's, and was a shortening of "Nihon Sangyo". By 1986, Nissan had phased out the Datsun name, but re-introduced it in the 2010's for economy models (an example of planned design/marketing where the maker signals economy by the name and design).
NT	Nat nets a nit (Nat Pendleton gets a nit) [nets=captures with a net] <Belgium> Nat Pendleton represented the U.S. in the 1920 Olympics (in Belgium) as a wrestler. He won a silver medal, but some think the match was judged poorly and he should have gotten the gold. Since wrestling is a close contact sport, I imagine him getting headlice, instead of the gold medal. Pendleton went on to became a movie actor, appearing in 95 short features and films, including several with the Marx Brothers. He was often "typecast in supporting roles, usually as 'befuddled good guys' or as slow-witted thugs, gangsters, and policemen." He has the full face of a tough guy. In his movie roles as a strongman, he has curly blond hair and a moustache, and of course a revealing tanktop to show off his chest.
NU	Nunn nudges a nun (Trevor Nunn suggests to a nun that she should hie herself to a nunnery) [nudges=gentley but persistently pressed against until (object) tips over] Trevor Nunn is a Shakesperian play director, and Hamlet at some point tells Ophelia "Get thee to a nunnery" (apparently NOT "Hie thee", though Lady Macbeth says "Hi thee hither" to somebody). So i imagine Nunn having to give his forgetful nun actor a little nudge. Trevor Nunn (1940 - ) is an English theater director. He sports a goatee and looks a bit like a British Frank Zappa. He has been married and divorced three times. He has been named one of the most influential people in British culture, and has been knighted. His theater productions include basically every play or musical you've ever heard of: Cats, Les Miserables, most Shakespeare's plays, Porgy and Bess,... He claims that Shakespeare's works have 100 times as much information on human nature as the bible. btw, a nun's habit consists of: White coif and black veil on the head, white scapular (bib-like) and black tunic on the body.
NV	Neville novas a navel (Neville Longbottom accidentally blows up a navel orange) {Neville with wand, surrounded by leafy plants in a greenhouse} Neville Longbottom: the clumsy one. Loves plants, excels in herbology. Parents were tortured to insanity by death eaters when Neville was a baby. Goes through dramatic character development, and at the end of the series destroys the final horcruxes by beheading the snake Nagini. In his first appearance in book one, on the train, he is looking for his pet toad Trevor. He gets picked on by Severus Snape, the potions professor: ‘Longbottom, at the end of this lesson we will feed a few drops of this potion to your toad and see what happens. Perhaps that will encourage you to do it properly.’ Snape moved away, leaving Neville breathless with fear."
NW	Nawin nowells a Narwhal (Nawin wishes "Merry Christmas" to a narwhal) [nowells=sings "We Wish You a Merry Christmas" to] /NAHR-wall/ Nawin is my kids' pet guinea pig. I picture her in a little Christmassy elf hat. Guinea pigs and whales (and beans) share the same basic body shape, so it makes sense that they'd stick together around the holidays. Nowell is the English spelling of Noel. Narwhals have a long tusk, really an enlarged tooth, with 10 million nerve endings worth of sensory capability. The tusk can be up to 10 feet long. Narwhals are a strictly arctic whale, and spend a lot of time under sea ice, coming up for air in pockets of liquid water. They can love to be 50 years old. Orcas hunt them. Narwhals and beluga are the only two species of whale in their family. Narwhals have jointed neck vertebrae, not fused like dolphins and most whales.
NX	Nixon nixes naproxen (Richard Nixon starts the war on drugs) [nixes= rejects, says no to, picture the person waving it away or pushing it away with his or her hand; naproxen -- just think "pill". naproxen=aleve, it's an NSAID like ibuprofen] Richard Nixon's approach to drugs, personally and in policy, is complex, so this sentence is a poor reflection of reality. Nixon was a heavy drinker, and talk legal drugs for insomnia and depression. His demonizing of drug figures such as Timothy Leary was famously outrageous and fanatical. On the other hand, his early push, as more soldiers and other Americans turned to drugs, was a massive effort toward helping drug users through education and health services. 
NY	Nye nylons a nymph (Bill Nye dresses a nymph in sheer nylons) [nylons=stretches thin, translucent fabric over] {Bill Nye in youtube video where he flames a globe (earth) on a countertop} On the show "Bill Nye Saves the World" (a sequel of sorts to "Bill Nye the Science Guy"), Rachel Bloom (co-creator and star of "Crazy ex-girlfriend") did a beyond-edgy performance. The song "My Sex Junk" is about not boxing in people by gender categories. She is wearing opaque nylons as part of her costume. (btw the rap is not good, musically). She says no matter what kind of personality you have, even if you're a "flirty wood sprite" [a.k.a. NYMPH] you can participate in the gender-bender game. Bill Nye is from Seattle, and I met him once on the Ultimate Frisbee field. And Aaron Stark REALLY met him and played against him. Also, Nye had the little clip where he set a globe on fire with a blow torch. Most famous nymph: Echo, in Greek mytholgy. "Echo is probably the most famous of all the nymphs. Her name and her voice live on to this day. An Oread from Mt. Kithairon, she used to run interference when Zeus would come to "play" with the other nymphs. That meant that when Hera came looking for her wayward hubby, Echo would keep her talking until everyone could make a clean get-away. Hera cursed her to lose any ability to speak for herself and to only be able to repeat the words of others. Then she fell in love with Narcissus. If you are interested in the story, check out the longer version in the Myth Pages. And while she loved Narcissus, who paid her no mind, she paid no mind to the loving attentions of the goatish nature god Pan."
	
	O is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
OA	Oats oars oatmeal (The dorm RA "Oats" goes on a canoe trip and brings oatmeal) [oars= rows, or hits with an oar] Oats resembles Lev. I don't know much about Oats, the man. But I know that his soccer team nicknamed him "Oatmeal", and he probably liked oatmeal, and it doesn't seem like such a stretch that an athlete like him would have rowed around with a bag of oatmeal at some point.
OB	Obama obliterates an oboe (Barack Obama sings Al Green songs during speeches and blows away stuffy oboe music) [obliterates=blows up with a hand grenade] <Chicago> Obama occasionally sings at public events, to wild enthusiasm. Extra info: Obama does personally know at least one oboe player, Booker T. Jones. More on Jones: Booker T. Jones tells a story of his visit to the White House in 2012. Someone (not really Booker T., but...) called out that the band should play "Green Onions" and the president nodded. "Green Onions" is a song Booker T. wrote when he was 16. His band was "Booker T. and the MG's". It was a mixed race band in the 60's. In 1968, when King was shot, that all changed. Mixed race bands were frowned upon by many African Americans in all the anger and violence that ensued. Booker T. Jones's first instrument was the oboe, because that was the only way he could be in the school band in 4th grade.
OC	Occam ocarinas an occiput (William of Ockham sings to a pope who's not listening and has his back turned) [occupy $= the back of the skull; ocarinas=plays an ocarina (that small, fist-shaped flute) with intent to mystically heal or fix] William was a 1300's scholar and theologian. He was English and an Oxford grad. He got on the wrong side of a pope. He held that Jesus and his followers did not own any possessions. He was summoned to Avignon, France to answer for his writings. He ended up fleeing Avignon and taking refuge with the Holy Roman Emperor in Bavaria. Occam died shortly before the plague began. Occam's razor: Logician and Franciscan friar William of Ockham, in the English county of Surrey, 1300's. "The principle states that 'Entities should not be multiplied unnecessarily.' " Most scientists use this type of formulation: "when you have two competing theories that make exactly the same predictions, the simpler one is the better." Einstein used it to cut out the idea of Ether from Lorentz's equations. He saw that Lorentz's equations worked fine with or without ether, so why include a concept of ether? Goodbye ether.
OD	Odo odes an odor (René Auberjonois sings about the fish he is cooking) [odor=a sachet, or potpourri bag; odes=sings about the specific benefits of, opera style] {Odo at Quark's high-ceilinged bar, with his palm pilot} René Auberjonois, who played Odo from Deep Space Nine, was an actor and singer with over 200 screen credits to his name. He played opposite Audrey Hepburn in a musical. He was in Benson. He played Father Mulcahy in the original MASH movie. He was the voice of Chef Louis in The Little Mermaid, in which he sang about the yummy taste of the fish he was preparing. The song is "Les poissons".
OE	Oedipus oenomels Oedipus (Oedipus destroys a paperback copy of Oedipus Rex by pouring wine on it) [oenomels=pours oenomel onto; oedipus=paperback version of Odeipus Rex] /think "n-m-l's"/ An oenophile is a wine-lover, an oenometer measures the alcohol content of wine. Oenomel is an ancient Greek drink of grape juice (unfermented) sweetened with honey. I imagine Oedipus wanting to destroy the terrible story about himself and pouring oenomel on a copy. Oenomel is from Greek oinos=wine and meli=honey. The word oenomel is used to describe concepts that are both strong and sweet. Oedipus Rex, Antigone, and Oedipus at Colona are the three Thebes books written by Sophocles in the 400's B.C. in Athens. Sophocles and Aristophanes were both writing plays in Athens during the 30-year Peloponnesian war, which Athens lost to Sparta. (Euripides and Aeschylus were writing plays in Greece at roughly the same time). Oedipus is famous for killing his own father and sleeping with his mother, without knowing it. When he discovers the truth, he pokes his own eyes out.
OF	Offenbach offs offal (Jacques Offenbach fires musicians and actors who show up late and underperform in his opera "The Tales of Hoffmann") [offs=shoots] /AH-ful/ "offal" is animal entrails, sometimes discarded, sometimes eaten. Etymology: Dutch "off fall, to fall off". Jacques Offenbach: So much to say! Active mid- to late-1800's. He was born Jacob, in a Jewish family in Germany, to a semi-professional violinist-and-cantor father. He was scary good at the cello at a young age. His father successfully wrangled an audition for Jacob and his brother at the Paris Conservatory. Jacob quit after one year. He lived in Germany ("Jacob") and France ("Jacque") had to leave France for awhile during a later revolution/unrest, then returned. He pulled pranks on fellow pit musicians like rigging their music stands to collapse during shows. His music was ironic and funny, and so he had a hard time getting his compositions played by an overly-respectable music establishment. But he ended up being well known, writing 100 operas/operettas, and influenced people like Johann Strauss Jr. and Arthur Sullivan, that is, composers who enjoyed creating lighter, more accessible music
OG	Og ogles an ogre (King Og makes eyes at a fellow giant) [ogles=holds and considers stealing; ogre=Shrek or one of his relatives] /oh-gle or sometimes ah-gle/ The word "ogle" comes from German "eye", to make eyes at. "ogre" is a French word from the 13th century, probably from a man-eating god Orcus. Ogres are famous for eating children and being large. Og appears in Deuteronomy, Numbers, and Psalms, and is also a part of Islamic mythology. He was the last of the giants, and was famous for having a bed that was 13 feet by 4.5 feet. Apparently the bed was on display somewhere long after he died. Og, along with every man, woman, and child in his kingdom of Bashan, was killed by Moses and his army.
OH	Othello ortho's an orthodontist (Othello throws a chessboard at a scam artist in frustration) [orthos=throws a chessboard at (object) after losing] <Iberian Peninsula> Orthogonal is a complementary word to diagonal. A chessboard has both orthogonal and diagonal patterns. So here, an "ortho" is a chessboard. Othello is slowly convinced by iago that Othello's wife Desdemona is adulterous, and that Cassio is a traitor. Othello kills Desdemona, and when he realizes too late iago's treachery he stabs him and calls him the devil. Othello in Shakespeare's play is dark-skinned and, because of this, mistrusted by other characters. He is a Moor, and a general in the Venetian army.
OI	Oin oils an oilskin (Oin does maintenance on the zipper of an oilskin coat) [oils=sprays with WD40] An oilskin is a waterproof coat worn by a fisherman or slime-liner. Oin was one half of Oin and Gloin, from The Hobbit. Dwarves are known for making things, and some things have to be oiled. Oin was killed by the "watcher in the water", a beast with tentacles, between the time of the Hobbit and the Fellowship. Oin would have done well to wear an oilskin that day. Gandalf and the people from Fellowship ran into the creature as well.
OJ	Ojo objurgates an ojime (Samuel "Samspedy" Asubiojo berates a Japanese clasp when he can't take off his sweatshirt) [objurgates=rebukes severely, scolds] /OH-jee-may/ This is a made up sentence, but it seems like something that could happen to Ojo. An ojime is a Japanese bead. Kimonos have no pockets, and a tradition developed of holding items in an inro (small compartment) looped around a sash with a cord. The cord is fastened/fixed with an ojime. An ojime is similar to those spring-loaded beads that hold drawstrings together in some sweatshirts. Two cords run through the bead, which is pulled up tight. An ojime is decorative and can be very ornate, detailed, and beautiful, though small. Samspedy is a Nigerian youtuber with 1.6 million followers. One of his recurring characters is Ojo. Samspedy is also a medical student and had a fashion line before becoming a youtuber. Ojo's mother, also played by Samspedy, often gets on Ojo's case. His mother berates him for getting a toothbrush when she asked for toothpaste, and for getting his girlfriend pregnant. I imagine Ojo criticizing (for some reason) a Japanese person's style of dress.
OK	O'Keeffe okimono's okra (Georgia O'Keeffe makes a beautiful small sculpture of an okra pod) [okimono's=to make a small ornamental sculpture of (object)] An okimono is an ornamental object d'art in Japan. They can be carved wood, or metal, or anything. Typical subjects would be boars, dragons, ... Okra is also known as "lady fingers". (It has a beautiful soft-white flower with a dark red pistil, though O'Keefe doesn't seem to have painted one). Georgia O'Keeffe (1887 - 1986) was born in Wisconsin to dairy farmers. Her grandfather was a Count in ?Bulgaria. She was sick several times when younger, including with the Spanish Flu in 1917. She lived in many places, including New York for 10 years, where she married an artist/art dealer. She outlived her husband. She had taught school in Texas for a couple years early on, and eventually settled in New Mexico, lastly in Santa Fe, painting many landscapes. (One of her paintings recently sold for $44 million, three times the old re ordered for a painting by a female artist). She wanted to be seen as an important artist, not only as a woman artist. She has many paintings in museums in nearby Oklahoma. For six decades she vigorously denied that her flowers represented genitalia. i certainly take her at her word. It's hard though not to make the connection with some of them though!
OL	Ollie oleos oolong (Ollie North lies to Iranians) [oleos= spreads butter on; oolong: a bag of loose tea] {Oliver North at the Mic, in his marine uniform with medals, speaking to Congress} Iranian, or Persian, tea is known for being clearer than others. I don't know if they specialize in oolong tea, but they are big tea drinkers. Ollie North openly admits having lied to Iranians, and openly admits having lied to many Americans, all out of, as he thinks it, a sense of patriotic duty. Nancy Reagan said "Ollie North has a great deal of trouble separating fact from fantasy." North was instrumental in the second part of the Iran-Contra scandal, not the part where arms were illegally sold to Iran but the part where the money was illegally funneled to the Contras in Nicaragua. In return for testifying, he got eventually got off Scot free. "Oleomargarine" was invented in France in 1869, in response to a challenge from Napolean III to make a butter substitute for the military and the poor. The first margarine factory was in Germany, 1871. Margaric acid, discovered by chemists, was a main ingredient at the time. The word "Oleo" comes from oleum, which is olive oil. 
OM	Omar omits an omen (Omar Sharif keeps a poker face while playing bridge) [omen=black cat; omits=picture person with a clipboard looking to the left of object and making a list] Omar Sharif, the sultan of seduction. From Egypt. Spoke six languages, had a degree in mathematics and physics. One of the best bridge players in the world. Father was a rare wood/timber mogul, mother was a socialite and gambler who was the only person who could keep up with Egypt's King Farouk in high stakes gambling. After being a movie star in Egypt and playing leading roles opposite his then-wife, he went to Hollywood and acted in three big movies (Lawrence of Arabia, Dr. Zhivago, Funny Girl), and 100 other small ones. Big career success dropped off after the three big movies.
ON	Ono onions an onion (Yoko Ono throws onions at a copy of the White Album) The White Album contains the song "Glass Onion". It is a parody song, written by John Lennon and the Beatles. The music is dark, but he is poking fun at all the weird conspiracy theories that Beatles fans had about the Beatles. I imagine Yoko Ono getting angry which the conspiracy theories too, and throwing onions at the album, perhaps in anger or perhaps as performance art. It's the kind of avant-garde thing Ono might do. Yoko Ono, one of New York's most well known avant-garde artists before she met John Lennon, became world famous as part of a couple. Her father was a pianist and successful banker. He came from a long line of warrior-scholars. (There's something about Samurais involved). Yoko grew up in Japan and the U.S., as her family moved here and there for work. She loves kimchi, and she loves vegetables.
OO	
OP	Opus opens an opossum (Opus peaks inside an opossum's pouch to see her baby, with permission) [opens=opens, or takes apart, or operates on with a scalpel, or opens a container containing (object)] {Opus, in a field of daisies, wearing a swim innertube} Opus is the beloved Bloom County penguin character. There were many anthropomorphic animals in that strip, why not an opossum? There is a Bloom County collection called "One Last Little Peak", and Opus is reading old strips while Bill the Cat is peaking into his own underwear, which is probably where my head got the image of Opus and peaking. The opossum is the only marsupial in North America. Marsupials, like kangaroos, carry their young in a pouch.
	
	
OQ	Oquendo overequips an ortanique (Jose Oquendo sticks a straw into an orange to drink its juice) [overequips=wraps with several chains or necklaces of bells, as with the proverbial "bells and whistles"] /oh-KEN-do/ <Puerto Rico> {between second and third base, waiting to make the play} "Ortanique is a natural tangor that was discovered in Jamaica. The name is a combination of 'or' for orange, 'tan' for tangerine, and 'ique' for unique." Jose Oquendo, from Puerto Rico, played with the Mets 1983-1985, then went to the St. Louis Cardinals, where he spent the rest of his career, including his current coaching career there. He was a versatile player, playing mostly second base but also outfielder, and playing ALL the positions on the field at one time or another in his career! His career fielding percentage, at .9919, is the second-best in Major League Baseball. His nickname was "The Secret Weapon". As third base coach for the cardinals he went to the World Series twice.
OR	Orin origami's an orange (Orin from "Parks and Recreation" makes an origami orange) <Indiana> Orin is April's creepy friend in the show "Parks and Recreation". He arranges a human animal farm with people dressed as animals in one episode. Making an origami orange could be in his wheelhouse. There are three original citrus fruits, the rest are human hybrids from the last few thousand years. Mandarin orange, citron, pomelo. They evolved 15 million years ago in the foothills of the Himalayas,in Yunnan, Myanmar, and Assam.
OS	Ossie ossifies an ossetra (Ossie Davis eats a sturgeon fish down to the bone while listening to his daddy's stories at the dinner table) [ossifies=turns into stone] /ah-SET-ruh/ {Ossie Davis, with fork and knife and fish, at the dinner table in Cogdell, Georgia} To ossify is to turn into bone, but "turn into stone" is close enough. Ossie Davis was an African-American playwright and actor. Among plays he wrote, his best known is 1961's "Purlie Victorious" about a preacher who returns to a small town and tries to set things right with a white cotton planter. Davis had success, along with Sidney Poitier, in landing serious, non-stereotypical roles in TV and movies. Later on in his career he played Da Mayor in Spike Lee's "Do the Right Thing." Davis married fellow performer Ruby Dee. "In a 1995 joint profile in The New York Times, the actors and activists Ruby Dee and Ossie Davis were described as being 'without peer in an industry not known for nurturing black people, older people or long marriages.' " More on Davis at end, after notes on the fish... The ossetra is the second-largest of three types of caviar-producing sturgeon in the Caspian Sea. Its caviar is a delicacy, second only in price to the beluga. Sturgeons are reminiscent of sharks, with a similar back fin. They have smooth skin, no scales. The largest beluga sturgeon ever found was 24 feet long and 3000 pounds. More typically they are around 10 feet. Ossetra are a bit smaller. There are 27 species of sturgeon. They are an ancient fish, having changed very little since the fossil record began, but now most species are endangered. They spawn in rivers, like salmon. Atlantic sturgeon once thrived along the east coast from Canada down to Florida. They were in such abundance in the Hudson River, they were called "Albany beef". Some sturgeon are strictly fresh-water, many live in estuaries, some range into the open ocean. They are common in the Caspian sea, despite it's being removed from other oceans. They are in oceans surrounding North America and Eurasia. Where are surgeons NOT found, despite a couple 100 million years on Earth? ANYwhere south of the equator! okay, more on Ossie Davis. There are many interviews to be found on YouTube. I watched a couple where he talked about the importance of his family life at the dinner table, both as a child and as a father. As a child, the family talked through stories of the day, such as lynchings of friends, and also told fun stories. Here are two quotes I wrote down: "...That old habit of coming to the dinner table not only for something to feed your stomache, but to feed your soul and your heart, and your head and your mind, was something that Ruby and I practiced because we had to." And, "...so when I went to school, I went with a specific assignment given to me by myself, to learn to read and write so I could take my daddy's stories and my mama's stories and put them on paper. I became a writer for that reason."
OT	Otto otoscopes an otter (Veterinary doctor Andrew Otto examines an otter). All Community Animal Hospital, North Porter, Texas. Dr. Andrew "Andy" Otto. Watched a 60-second video about their nice big facility. Dr. Otto sat back on a couch and said they have digital X-Rays. The techs said the place has a family atmosphere. More about Dr. Otto at end. Otoscope: Term invented 1849. oto=ear. Has light and magnification, used to examine the ear. Otter: There are 13 species of otter. The sea otter is the largest (and cutest). The otter is in the same family as weasels, minks, and polecats. Otter is related to the word "water". The "river otter" is currently making a comeback in Texas. --Q. and A. with Dr. Andrew Otto: "Q: What advice would you give another veterinarian trying to find an area of focus or field within veterinary medicine? Dr. Otto: Naturally, you will look forward to some parts of the job more than others. Focus on what you like best, but try not to develop any weak spots. Pick CE far ahead of time that will enhance your areas of interest. Q: What do you look forward to when you get up in the morning and go to work? Dr. Otto: Lunch. Also puppy and kitten visits. No, but seriously this job can be very difficult and it's extremely rewarding when you get help people with their animals. One appreciative client can really brighten your whole day. Q: What drives your passion for animals? Dr. Otto: By and large, animals keep the kindness and innocence of a human child their whole life long, which is pretty cool." I love this guy! Who wouldn't love this guy?!
OU	Ousmane ouzos an oud (Ousmane Sembene drinks a toast to the xalam --lute-- ) [ouds=pours ouzo over] /oos-MAHN sehm-BEHN / Ousmane Sembene, 1923 - 2007, the father of African cinema. Picture him on set in a field in Senegal, clearing branches away from the camera. Sembene lived in Senegal, which is the (geographically) western-most country of Africa (and of the entire eastern hemisphere). "In our African memories, nothing concerning African heroes has been valued...Sembene single-handedly, almost with his bare hands, created African Cinema." I can't do justice to this person in this small space. For 50 years he told African stories. He has a long pipe hanging from his lips in many images. Senegal had been controlled by the French, and so French was one if the languages he spoke, along with Arabic and his native tongue Wolof. He was the son of a fisherman. He worked on docks in Marseilles, France for awhile, and during WWII he fought for Free France. He wrote three critically acclaimed novels (and six more later), but was frustrated that he couldn't reach his Senegalese people through novels, so he taught himself to make movies. He believed in people over institutions and powers, he was a marxist, and so he was celebrated in communist countries. He spent time in Moscow. He is the subject of the 2015 documentary "Sembebe!" He considered himself a modern-day griot (/GREE-oh/), and griots often recite while playing a xalam, or lute. Ouzo is a beautiful drink from Greece flavored with anise, which is a seed with a similar taste to fennel and licorice. Ouzo is clear, but becomes milky when ice or water is added because the oil in anise is soluble in ouzo's 35% alcohol, but not in lower alcohol concentrations. An oud is similar to a lute. it is "the principal instrument of the Arab world". It is like a lute, but with a short neck and no frets. It is pear-shaped. the pegbox is bent backward (at the top of the neck). it has 11-13 strings in 5-6 courses, i.e. many strings are doubled, like a 12-string guitar.
OV	Ovid ovens an ovum (Ovid cooks a hard-boiled egg) [ovens=cooks; ovum=ostrich egg, which is 6 inches long and takes up the whole hand that holds it] {Ovid standing in his house, a Roman ruin, in the faraway city of Tomis, on the shores of the Black Sea, with a scroll of papyrus} Since Ovid's greatest work was the Metamorphoses, it seems fitting that he would cook an egg, changing it from liquid to solid. Ovid's magnum opus was "Metmorphoses", a collection of 250 tales with the common theme of things metamorphosizing into other things. Ovid was born around 40 BC and died 18 AD. He was banished from his home and wife in 8 A.D., apparently for writing a naughty, smutty book, and died in exile in Tomis on the Black Sea (which is REALLY far away from Rome). He was from a wealthy family and his father prepared him for a career in law (rhetorics). But Ovid instead became a poet. Some think that "Metamorphoses" represents the climax and tincture of all the great Greek and Roman poetry mythology.
OW	Owen owes an owie (Owen Wilson owes someone a punch for breaking his nose) [ owie=a cut on the subject's finger; owes an object-- picture the person clutching the object and refusing to let go] Owen Wilson got his characteristic nose from having it broken twice, once in a childhood fight and once playing football.
OX	Oxley oxcarts an ox (John T. Oxley ships an ox by air) [oxcarts=puts on a plane] <Oklahoma> John Oxley (1909 - 1996) is a local hero in Tulsa, Oklahoma for several reasons. He was an oilman (and natural gas man) in Oklahoma. He was also a championship polo player, leading several teams to international victories, and was elected into the Polo Hall of Fame in 1994. (One of his sons almost died from a brain stem injury, I think from playing polo, and laid in a coma for 31 days). Also he was a horse breeder, and he was born on a cattle farm. People do actually ship cattle by air sometimes, and I fel that John T. Oxley could or should be one of those people. He and his wife were very involved in philanthropy, including donating the money for a park with trails in Tulsa, which is named named after her: Mary K. Oxley park. They used to ride horses and court on that patch of land in Tulsa. The Lockheed A-12 reconnaissance plane was nicknamed the Oxcart, after the code name for its project. It was the last generation of planes to do aerial surveillance, in the 60's, before satellites took over. It is large, dark grey, and has a REALLY cool shape.
OY	Oyster oysters an oysterman (the hothead character named Oyster chucks oysters at a fishing vessel in New York) [oysterman=a small fishing vessel used to harvest oysters] Semper Fi is movie about a bunch of marine reserves guys in upstate New York. One of them, Oyster, accidentally kills someone in a bar. Oyster's half-brother Cal, a policeman, who is the straightest of the buddies, is the person who apprehends Oyster. Oyster is given 25 years, and the other friends shove off for the Iraq war. Later, they break him out of prison. An oysterman is a SHIP that is used for dredging oysters.
	
	P is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
PA	Papa paperbags pasta (Papa Johns' owner John Schnatter puts pasta into a to-go bag) [paperbags=puts into a big brown paper bag with handles to take somewhere, or for large objects, cuts eye holes in the bag and puts it over head of (object)] John Schnatter started PapaJohn's pizza in 1983, as an add-on to his father's pub in Indiana. He sold his Camaro for the starter money, and years later found it and bought it back for $250,000. The company grew to be the fourth largest U.S. pizza chain. Schnatter was forced out in 2018 due to racial slurs (also comments about the NFL National Anthem kneeling business. He claims the pizza taste has suffered in his absence.
PB	Plumbean parboils a pebble (Plumbean boils rocks as an eccentric way to prepare them for a rock display in his garden) [pebble=a colorful, striped pebble] <Levittown, Pennsylvania> To parboil something is to "partially boil" it. Sometimes used with potatoes. Plumbean is the eccentric leading character in the Children's book "The Big Orange Splot"
PC	Picard procures a Picasso (Captain Picard obtains a painting by Pablo Picasso) Picasso painting: picture a woman's face in profile, but with two eyes.
PD	Perd peddles a paddle (Perd Hapley sells the idea of going to the beach this weekend) [peddles=sells aggressively, with a smile] Perd Hapley (played by Jay Jackson) is a newscaster on the sitcom "Parks and Recreation". He probably gives weekend advice on some Friday afternons.
PE	Pepe peppers a pepper (Pepe Le Pew sprays a flowering pepper plant) [peppers=sprays with pepper spray? grates peppercorns onto?] Pepe Le Pew got started in 1945. He is always amorous, seeking out a particular cat. His smell causes much hilarity to ensue. In one scene, he walks by a row of flowers, which wilt one by one at the scent wafting from his tail. To pepper something is to spray it, or hurls objects at it, or possibly spray bullets at. Judging from google, most pepper flowers are small, simple white flowers. Some are purple.
PF	Puff puffs a puffin (Puff the Magic Dragon blows a puff of smoke at a puffin) [puffs=blows smoke in the face of object] <Scandinavia, near vikings> A puffin is a small seabird with a brightly colored beak in mating season. They are found in the north Atlantic and north Pacific. A book series (Puffin books) borrowed their name. "Puff the Magic Dragon" is a song by Peter, Paul and Mary, released 1963.
PG	Peg pugs a pig (Peg Malloy of Colorado throws a first attempt at a clay pig back into the pugmill) [pugs = destroys in a trash compactor] I found Peggy Malloy's obituary online. She was an artist and potter in Colorado. She grew up in Illinois, went to school in Santa Barbara, CA, then met her future husband while being a ski bum in Vail, CO in 1965. She spent time in Denver, and eventually moved to Carbondale. "She enjoyed teaching ceramics workshops across the country, where she learned how respected her work was." A pugmill is a machine that recycles old clay and prepares it for fresh use. It has a big auger (screw) and gets the lumps and inconsistencies out of the clay. I imagine Peggy making a clay guinea pig, being unsatisfied, and starting over.
PH	Posh pushes a pushup (Fashion mogul Posh Spice sells a pushup bra or dress). Victoria Beckham, nee Adams. Married soccer superstar David Beckham. As a member of the Spice Girls (the best selling girl band of all time) she was known as Posh Spice. She then had a successful solo singing career with many top hits. Then she became very successful in the fashion world. She was inspires to become a musical by the 1980 movie "Fame". I should note that pushup tops are not really her style. But it will have to do.
PI	Pi pies a pipi (Pi throws a pie at a pipi) OR DOES HE MAKE A PIE OUT OF PIPIS? /PIH-pee/ "Life of Pi" is a fantastical novel with carnivorous islands and attacking Frenchmen. Why not pie a clam too? A pipi is a bivalve mollusk, found in Australia and New Zealand. They look like small clams. Formerly a bait, now a restaurant item (but the secret is to not overcook them). I watched 4 guys on a pristine Australian beach doing the "shoreline shuffle" with bare feet and nets. The industry is regulated to avoid low prices. The pipis are packaged in 80% oxygen to double their shelf life.
PJ	Puja projects popjoy (Puja Gupta, a vegetarian, throws up popjoy) [projects=throws, like a projectile; popjoy=a container of blue popjoy] /pro-JECTS/ {Puja Gupta by a swimming pool, getting too much sun, holding an extra swimsuit} Puja Gupta is an Indian model and actor born in New Delhi. She was India's Miss Universe candidate in 2007 in Paris. She has been in a number of movies, including the one where she gives a guy his bathing suit. She is a vegetarian and animal rights activist. She suffered a very bad sunburn on her back once while filming in the jungle and became ill. Popjoy is a brand of blue spiralina, the magic blue algae superfood at Hometown Cafe and other places. Also: a "puja" is an act of worship in Hinduism.
PK	Pike packs a puck (Captain Pike brings a puck in his starship as part of a missile defense system) [packs=carries in a hiking backpack; puck=red, ridged air hockey puck] Captain Pike was Kirk's predecessor in Star Trek.
PL	Paul pallets a pill (Dr. Paul Janssen invents and ships pharmaceuticals) [pallets=puts on a pallet for shipping] Dr. Paul Janssen, 1926 - 2003, Belgian chemist and apparent saint. He allowed Johnson & Johnson to buy his company but successfully kept the company's independence. From the interweb: " Dr. Paul Janssen (1926-2003) was one of the 20th century's most innovative and inspiring pharmaceutical researchers. With over 100 patents to his name, his work was responsible for many breakthroughs in several fields of disease, including pain management, psychiatry, infectious disease and gastroenterology " ...and... " Dr. Paul helped save millions of lives through his contribution to the discovery and development of more than 80 medicines, four of which remain on the World Health Organization’s list of essential medicines. " ...and... "After setting up the first western pharmaceutical company in China, Janssen became involved in the fate of one of their national treasures: the historic Xian Terracotta Army, whose façades were being destroyed by mold. Janssen helped protect and preserve the statues by using antifungal medicine from his lab—and the Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson continues to aid in the preservation of these priceless artifacts. "
PM	Pam palms a palm (Pam Reed slaps a palm tree which has been set as the turnaround point in a foot race) [system: to palm is to leave a red handprint on a person's skin from a hard slap, or to leave a painted hand-print on something] Pam Reed is an ultra runner who lives in Arizona and Wyoming. She holds the women's record for the six-day marathon, which she set in 2009. In 2003 she was the overall (men's and women's) winner of the Badwater Marathon, with a time of 27 hours. She repeated the feat in 2003. The Badwater Ultramarathon was conceived of as a race between the lowest spot and the highest spot in the contiguous U.S., which are only 80 miles apart as the crow flies. Nowadays it goes from the lowest point, in Death valley, to a spot near the highest point, at an elevation of 8,000 instead of the original 14,000. Palm trees: There are 2600 known species of palm tree. They are evergeeens, and have been around for about 60 million years. As monocots, palm trees do not have growth wings.They have no cambium sap layer under the bark. They just have a bunch of active vessels spread throughout the entire width of the trunk. This is related to fact that after some initial growth, they never get wider: palm trees have long, cylindrical trunks, not conical like other trees. Records: The coco de mer has the largest seeds of any plant. (Coconuts are the second largest). Raffia palms have the largest leaves of any plant, up to 160 feet by 9 feet! 
PN	Penn pans penne (Gulielma Penn --William Penn's first wife-- cooks pasta) [pans="cooks"] /PEN-nay/ Gulielma Penm left a 150-page book of "receipts" including "Too make a tart of Spinage", with no measurements, just vague notes on ingredients and process. It has recently been typed out, organized, and published. Her son William put the first collection together. William Penn are dinner between 2-4 every day. The table was prepared with as many tablecloths as there were courses, and after each course was removed by servants, a tablecloth was removed. William Penn was given a large parcel of land in the New World by the King of England in payment of a debt to William's father. William sailed to what became Penn's forest" (Pennsylvania) and got to work administering. He was a Quaker. Apparently he had a good relationship with the local tribe of Native Americans. He lived in the 1600's, dying I think in 1708. Penne: cylindrical pasta cut at an angle. Penne s the Itlian cognate of pen. In Italian, penne means "pens", and also "feathers", "quills"
PO	Po poofs a poodle (mathematician Po Shen Loh proves the "Shaggy Dog Theorem", making it go away as a mathematical problem) [poofs=makes disappear magically, perhaps by surreptitiously throwing it up and over a person] The shaggy dog theorem, better known as the hairy ball theorem, was actually proved in 1885. it states, in essence: "However you comb a shaggy dog, there is always a tuft or a whorl." Po Shen Loh is a mathematician and professor at Carnegie Mellon University. He takes teams of students to math competitions and wins against MIT, Stanford, and the like. He insists that winning isn't the goal. He's very progressive and positive.
PP	
	
	
PQ	Plastique plastiques a plaque (DC comics supervillain Plastique returns to evil and blows up a plaque she had received for doing good deeds) [plaque=nice, dark block of oak, in which is centered one of those glassy black rectangles with gold lettering] <Quebec> Plastique, who is a supervillain, got her start as a Quebec separatist and terrorist. She attaches bombs to her clothing, and by way of some genetic engineering she is able to cause the explosions to go outward from her body, leaving her unscathed. Pretty neat trick! Her secret identity is Bette Sans Souci. She and Captain Atom (a good guy) are an on-again-off-again item. For awhile they are married, and she.does good things, but it doesn't last. 
PR	Parr pares a pear (Helen Parr pares a pear) [Bob, Helen, Violet, Dash, Jack-Jack Parr, so-named because "par" means "average"] Helen Parr -elasti-girl from the Incredibles- works in the kitchen paring a pear). Pare: peel, trim, related to "prepare" (and "parent"), to cut off outer skin, to reduce or diminish. Budgets and demands can be pared down. The pear has an iconic shape. Pear tree wood is used to make woodwind instruments and furniture. Pears are eaten fresh, canned, juiced and dried. I use to grab pears off that tree at Camp Royaneh and eat them. Pears are thought to have originated in present-day western China. They were eaten in antiquity, and for thousands of years before that. Pare. etymology knife. pare a budget. what else can be pared.
PS	Puss passes a pesse (Puss in Boots, sailing on a catamaran, passes a canoe) [puss=any cat, passes=walks by OR throws] There is a funny scene in Shrek where Puss in Boots and Shrek are on a boat and Puss in Boots is encouraging Shrek to go fishing. He makes funny reeling-in sound effects and pantomime. Puss in Boots ("the booted cat") is an Italian fairy tale from the 1500's. Through an improbable series of events, a young man's anthropomorphic cat helps the man marry the King's daughter, assuring riches for both man cat. The pesse canoe, possibly the oldest known boat in the world, and definitely the oldest canoe. 8000 B.C., near Pesse, the Netherlands. It was discovered during road construction. Scientists think it isn't a food trough because the people at that time didn't have animals. Someone made a replica of it, and it handled well in water. And it is similar to the design of later canoes from the region. It is carved from a single tree trunk.
PT	Pat pets a pot (Patrick Stewart, "Cowboy Pat", shows affection for his only campfire friend) Yeah it's true, Patrick Steward (Captain Picard on Star Trek TNG) has put out a sendup infomercial where he's singing a bunch of cowboy western songs wearing full cowboy gear. He calls himself "Cowboy Pat"
PU	Putin punctures a pupu (Vladimir Putin puts a toothpick into an hors d'oeuvres on a pupu platter) /Putin: PU-nnn (glottal-swallowed second syllable)/ Putin: His grandfather was a cook to Lenin. His two brothers died before he was born, one in infancy, the other of diphtheria during the German Siege of Leningrad. Putin's mother was a factory worker and his father was a conscript in the Soviet Navy, and was severely wounded in 1942. Putin's uncles, and maternal grandmother, were killed in WWII. Putin is a judo black belt and is accomplished at sambora, a Soviet martial art and combat sport. He was a KGB officer for 16 years. He was prime minister of Russia off and on from 199 - 2008, and the president from 2012 to present. Russia has done very well economically under Putin, but he us accused of ordering the torturing and killing, and of course jailing, of dissidents, i.e. he's a tyrant. Pupu: "A pu pu platter (or pu-pu or pupu) is a tray of American Chinese or Hawaiian food consisting of an assortment of small meat and seafood appetizers." pupu is a word of Hawaiian language origin.
PV	Purv purveys a paver (Purv sells patio pavers in a hardware store) {Purv on the floor of the store, talking to people, holding a reddish-brown stone paver}
PW	Pow paws a pew (Pow! grabs at a newly installed pew on his flying disc in an attempt to stay on it) [paws=grabs at] Pow! (Kelloggs Snap, Crackle, Pop, Pow!) is a spaceman who flies on a flying-saucer sort of thing. Its shape is hard to describe. It's like you filled the bell of a trumpet with cement, then cut the bell off the trumpet, then put a little circular handrail into the cement so that Pow can keep from falling off. It is only slightly more strange than the idea of him flying in on a church pew. Anyway, Snap, Crackle and Pop got started in 1928. Pow! was a short-lived 1950's addition, for the space age. (the spaceman fourth brother, like the fifth Beatle) Pow! "represents the power of whole grain rice"
PX	Paxton pixilates a pixie (Bill Paxton causes a woman with a pixie cut to be on-screen-blurred due to its being a nude scene) [pixillates=shows a video of the thing and pixilates it] <Oklahoma> Pixies: They're smaller than fairies and have better magical powers, they often have blue skin and pointy ears, they wear few or no clothes and they live in gardens. You know the hunk from the movie "Twister"? (set in Oklahoma) His name is Bill Paxton (originally from Texas), and it turns out he's had a small or leading role in every movie you've ever heard of: Terminator, Titanic, Aliens, Weird Science, Predator, Apollo 13... (He also directed two feature films, and the music video for the 1981 bizarre hit "Fish Heads"). He starred in "Big Love", a TV series in which he plays a Mormom with three wives, one played by Ginnifer Goodwin. Goodwin often sports a pixie cut and in fact looks exactly like a pixie when she does. In preparation for the the sex scenes in Big Love, Goodwin would write messages with a marker pen on her private parts, such as "No way, Jose", in an effort to prevent the studio from breaking their agreement and showing nude images of her! So... she didn't end up being pixelated, but... close enough, for this sentence!
PY	Pyle pyros a pylon (Gomer Pyle burns a traffic pylon) "pyr" is of latin origin, meaning fire, as in pyre, pyrotechnics, and 10,000 other words. Pylon: traffic pylons would be a typical item at a gas station. I read the description of an episode of the Andy Griffith Show: "When Andy puts out a few smoldering rags at Wally's Filling Station Gomer is convinced that Andy has saved him from certain death and decides that he is forever in Andy's debt."
	
	Q is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
QA	Qua quaaludes a quaqua (Mr. Qua --Russell Collins-- hides quaalude pills from the retirement home director by throwing them into a potted plant) {on the lawn outside the retirement home, as Ben, in the middle of the night, calling after Charlie} Russell Collins, Carnegie Mellon. Mr. Qua is the motel manager in Marilyn Monroe's breakout 1953 movie "Niagara", but for this sentence, Mr. Qua refers to Ben, a character from a Twilight Zone episode played by the same actor: Russell Collins. Collins (1897 - 1965) grew up in Indianapolis, the third of five children, and in the days following WWI attended drama school at Carnegie Tech, now part of Carnegie Mellon, in Pitrsburgh (confirmed). btw this is an illustrious drama school, and there are many famous graduates including Ted Danson. Collins was a character actor (often playing crusty old bald men) who appeared in 20 movies and many Broadway shows. He played a sailor in the submarine vs. destroyer movie "The Enemy Below". One of his more well-known roles was Benny in the Season 3, episode 21 "The Twilight Zone" called "Kick the Can". Benny lives in a retirement home. His friend Charlie convinces a bunch of residents that they can be young again if they play kick the can. Benny stays behind. The residents go out, and at the end of the episode they do indeed transform into children. Benny sees Charlie as a young boy and calls after him "Charlie, wait for me. Charlie, it's me, Benny!" but Charlie doesn't recognize him and runs away. ALSO: There is a super-villain named Russell "Rusty" Collins ("Firefist"), who I can only imagine is named after the actor. He is the powerful kid in Deadpool 2 whom Deadpool breaks out of the prison and tries to turn away from evil. Quaaludes are now illegal, but used to be prescribed. They were first synthesized in India, as an anti-malarial drug. "The sedative–hypnotic activity of methaqualone was first noted in 1955. In 1962, methaqualone was patented in the United States by Wallace and Tiernan. Its use peaked in the early 1970s for the treatment of insomnia, and as a sedative and muscle relaxant." "Rorer 714" are the words emblazoned on quaalude pills. Quaqua: The quaqua is a succulent in Africa. It has long, erect branches, each with 4"flaps", with each flap having many knobs and each knob having a spike. (Yeah, you'll have to look up a picture!) It belongs to a genius of plants that usually attracts flies as pollinators, by creating a flower that looks and smells like an animal carcass. The flowers of some plants in the genus are called "carrion flowers".
QB	Quickbeam quarterbacks a quibbler (Quickbeam the Ent hurls a newspaper at a newspaper publisher, as a weapon) [quarterbacks=throws; quibbler=a rolled up newspaper] {Quickbeam in a forest battle, with newspapers for weapons} Quickbeam is a young ent (tree shepherd) in the Tolkien books. Naturally he is angry that someone would turn trees into paper. The Quibbler is the weekly newspaper in the Harry Potter series. 
QC	Quince quinces a quince (writer Quince Duncan throws a party for a quince fruit) /"Queence keenses a quince", or more simply, "Quince keenses a quince" is almost accurate/ Quince Duncan, b. 1940. Costa Rica’s first Afro-Caribbean writer in the Spanish language. Most of Costa Rica's African-descended population (which makes 8% of the total population) is descended from English-speaking Jamaican immigrants. Banana plantations were involved. A quinceanera is a celebration of a girl's 15th birthday, and is a tradition of Mexico and Central America. The quince is yellow and resembles a pear on the inside and outside. It is a fruit if the ancient world, and appears in biblical and Greek texts. They are still grown in that region, and in California, and I'm sure Central America has a couple of quince trees.
QD	Quaid quids a quidditch_stick (Dennis Quaid buys a broomstick, in order to clean his over-large Montana house) [quids=buys, in a store; quidditch_stick=magical broomstick for playing quidditch] A quid is a British monetary amount meaning one pound sterling. It was called a quid because it was used for trading, as in "quid pro quo". A quid, which is a 1-pound coin, is currently worth 1.33 US dollars. In the past, a quid was available as a paper bill as well. Dennis Quaid's first big role was 1979's Breaking Away (which, to me, makes him a hero forever no matter what else he does). He is from Texas and has some Cajun ancestry. Since "Breaking Away" he has starred in many movies, becoming in some peoples' minds the best actor never to win an Oscar. (Fun fact: He turned down the role that was then offered to Tom Hanks for "Big"). He was married to Meg Ryan for awhile. He was part of Trump's ad campaign regarding Covid-19, and will be playing Ronald Reagan in an upcoming movie. The house he built in Montana's Paradise Valley is expensive. It has 20 doors to the outside. It has 100-year-old wood for the floors. It's big. It has a lot of distressed wood and details to make it appear old.
QE	Queen queens a queen (Freddie Mercury takes Princess Diana to a gay bar in drag) [queen=a chess piece queen; queens=puts a queens crown onto; Queen: think Freddie Mercury] Fun fact: Freddie Mercury's parents were Zoroastrian. They had left Iran when Islam became dominant. Anyway, apparently Freddie Mercury once took Princess Diana to a gay bar in drag. "According to comedian Cleo Rocos, she smuggled the Princess into the Royal Vauxhall Tavern alongside Freddie and comedian Kenny Everett in 1988. Better still? It was the product of the quartet all watching The Golden Girls together. They dragged her up in a camo jacket and leather cap and, apparently, nobody was any the wiser and she was able to just order a few drinks and have a night out in a gay bar."
QF	Qwilfish quaffs a quaffer (Qwilfish consumes a smaller fish) [quaffer=small fish or double-decker shot glass] Qwilfish is a pokemon character who sucks in water, then uses the water pressure to send all its quills flying. Teal on top half of body, mint green on bottom.
QG	Qui_Gon quags a quagga (Qui-gon Jinn rides a quagga into a quagmire and gets it stuck) [quags=throws into a bog] /Kwai Gahn, rhymes with Saigon/ "Quag" is archaic for quagmire, a marshy bog. Qui-Gon Jinn, teacher of Anakin Skywalker, played by Liam Neeson. A lot happens in Star Wars. There's probably a backstory where Qui-Gon rides a zebra through a bog, maybe on Yoda's planet, Dagobah. A quagga is an extinct subspecies of Zebra from South Africa. The only quagga photographed alive was photographed in 1870. "It was distinguished from other zebras by its limited pattern of primarily brown and white stripes, mainly on the front part of the body."
QH	Quiche quashes quiche (Quiche Lorraine rejects the idea of having quiche in the house) Quiche Lorraine, Bloom County character (and a quiche recipe/dish). Blonde, dates Steve Dallas.
QI	Qi quilts a quilt (Qi Yuwu makes a quilt at home) [quilts=throws a quilt over] Qi Yuwu, actor and hunk, married to fellow celebrity Joanne Peh. They appear to be very nice people, with a perfect family and balanced lives, good heads on their shoulders. I picture them in a happy domestic scene. [special note for Qi & Qu: Pinyin (/peenyeen/) is a system developed by and for Chinese people to use Roman letters to represent Chinese sounds, to aid in unification and education. The Q sound is like a lighter /ch/, with the tongue close to the /t/ position. Having researched this, I will now proceed, for the purposes of my system only, to pronounce Qi and Qu as "kee" and "koo", just so I don't drive myself crazy]
QJ	Quajo quajo's Quajath (Quajo Mezayah puts a T-shirt with his own name on the monster Quajath the Undermaw and tells it that he --Quajo-- is the chosen one) [quajos=puts a T-shirt on (object), or gives T-shirts to everyone in a location] /KWAH-jo/ Quajo is a clothing line. It seems to be mostly T-shirts. They feature two logos especially: a small mountain range, and what looks like the cross-section of a butterfly yo-yo, both with the word "QUAJO" underneath them. Quajo Mezayah is a singer from Kononga, in the Ashanti region of Ghana, which is west of Nigeria on the "southern" coast if west Africa, just below the Sahara. There is a video of him singing a song in what sounds to my ear like heavily accented English ("Am a CHOSEN, CHOSEN, I'm a CHOSEN, CHOSEN, mighty CHOSEN, CHOSEN, super CHOSEN, CHOSEN.") He stands on a large rockpile and sings, then walks through the city and sings some more. Quagath is a character from "Critical Role", an American web series in which a group of professional voice actors play Dungeons & Dragons. Quajath has regenerative powers, it can regrow and heal itself. It is non-gendered. It is a gigantic curling worm-like creature with a large mouth ringed with teeth, and three ivory eyes where its tongue should be. Quajath is blood-red-purple with a brown underbelly, and has spines shaped like large teeth. Quajath is imprisoned in the "Tomb of the Worm" on an island. Quajath was thought to have been slain in the final battles of the Calamity (Torog, who created it to be his scout, cruelly left it to die, but instead Quajath burrowed beneath the cold of the Eiselcross to recover and regrow. Its burrowing created mountains and cliffs.
QK	Quark quakes a quacker (Quark from Deep Space Nine shakes a duck who's making too much noise in his bar) [quakes=shakes violently]
QL	Quill quells a quoll (Peter quill wraps a frightened marsupial firmly in a blanket) [quells=wraps firmly in a thick blanket to keep safe] Quelling, as in quelling violence, implies a use of force, so wrapping firmly in a blanket seems good. Peter Quill is the "Star Lord", played by Chris Pratt. In Parks & Rec, Chris Pratt's character is gentle with his dog Champion. Quolls are small marsupials in Australia and New Guinea. They are dark grey with white spots. Recently, their population has become.threatened because of the invasive cane toad, so they probably need quelling after eating one of those poisonous things.
QM	Quimmons quemes a qualmond (Quinn Simmons pacifies and pleases a fellow racer) [quemes= to clean and tidy (object), to take it from a ruffled, upset, messy state to a tidy, neat one] Quinn Simmons, known on Instagram as Skin.Quimmons (red hair, short beard, 19 years old), is a champion cyclist; A qualmond is a type of racing pigeon; and to queme is to please, satisfy or mitigate. Simmons got in hot water with his cycling team in 2020 for use of a black hand emoji, and has since stayed out of trouble, thus "quemeing" his fellow teammates. More about Simmons: He is from Durango, CO. His mom is an avid runner, his dad as a competitive biker, his younger brother is in the international bike racing circuit too. Quinn's dad used to take him back-country skiing. They would climb up a mountain and ski down it 20 times. Quinn's mom would go for long runs and Quinn would tag along on his bike. Mom and Dad were outdoors people, and report having used lots of bribery (sodas, candy) to get their kids to hike up mountains and such. At age 6, Quinn, during a family trip, decided to get out of the car and rode, on his bicycle, a 100-mile "Rim trail". It took 3 days and he pedaled every mile of it without help. That's the kind of family he had, that supported that kind of quest. Quinn quote: “When you get me, my brother, and my dad together on a group ride, I’m sure everyone else on the ride hates us because it’s full-gas competition, and that’s the way it’s always been... There are no friendly rides. It’s always on.” Nowadays Quinn and his dad climb 1000-foot rock cliffs for a break from training... About qualmonds: Joe Quinn was a giant of 20th century pigeon racing and breeding. He studied a type of pigeon called an "almond" and discovered a new sub-strain of almond, which came to be known as "Quinn's Almond", shortened to "qualmond". The pigeon was the first bird to be domesticated, and they have been raced as long ago as 220 A.D. Pigeon racing enjoyed a hugh bom in the 19th century as a result if railroads and more accurate ways of timing them. Messenger pigeons have played a large role in communication through the centuries, mostly being used by the military. "The Reuters News Agency, the world's largest information provider, began as a pigeon service carrying closing stock prices between Belgium and Germany" Queme: to please, to satisfy. From Middle English queme, from Old English cweme, Old English cwēme (“pleasant, agreeable, acceptable”), related to Old English cwemnes, Old English cwēmnes (“pleasure, satisfaction, mitigation”)
QN	Quinn quinines a quinnat (Quinn pours tonic water over a chinook salmon to clean it off, being slightly unprepared and lacking a better solution) [quinines=pours bitter tonic water over] /QUINN-uht/ {Quinn fishing by the Little Miami river, with a fishing pole} Quinine is an anti-malarial drug from the bark of the South American cinchona tree. It is also the bitter flavoring in tonic water (which some say is a good remedy for leg cramps and restless leg syndrome), and is safe in small doses. "Quinnat" is the New Zealand term for chinook or king salmon. The quinnat was introduced to NZ by 1905, from North America. It is a popular sport fish for its taste and good fighting.
QO	Quo quotes a quotient (rap duo Quo gives a number) [quotes=quotes a price for; quotient: picture the stonehenge-pi sculpture from Spinal Tap] Quo song lyric: "Behold, 20 million records gonna be sold") A quotient is the result from division (comparable to sum, difference, and product). Though pi is not the quotient of any two integers, it IS the quotient of a circle's circumference and its diameter, so I will picture the Greek letter pi as my quotient. The rap duo Quo sounds awesome, very tight. Both members were about 13 years old when Quo was big, and both went on to solo careers in acting, modeling, and music. "Quo was an Australian-American short-lived hip hop duo composed of Wade Robson and DeWayne Turrentine Jr. Preceded by Brownstone, they were the second act signed to Michael Jackson's Epic Records subsidiary, MJJ Music. The duo formed in 1993."
QP	Quipper_The quarpels a quip (Chandler Bing waterproofs a toothbrush) [quip=electric toothbrush; quarpels=spreads quarpel onto, with a brush] Chandler Bing, the funny quipper from the TV show "Friends", is finicky enough that he might choose to water-proof a toothbrush. A Quip is an instagram-famous electric toothbrush that uses sonic vibrations. You can sign up for a new head and battery to be mailed every three months. They are smaller, lighter, and more stylish than regular electric toothbrushes. One reviewer reported that the brush head was too large to easily get to the molars and other small spaces in her mouth. Quarpel is a substance applied to textiles to make them water-resistant. It is used on lots of military gear, and other gear. "Quarpel is a durable water-repellent and oil-resistant treatment for textiles developed at the Quartermaster Research and Development Laboratories in 1959. ... Fabrics treated with the compound remained vapor permeable and free from uncomfortable moisture condensation."
QQ	
	
	
QR	Quarrel quarantines a quire (Quarrel, from the James Bond movies, hides a document) [quarantines=hides in a pocket or behind one's back or in a nearby shed, or enforces a quarantine on the people of a location; quire=medieval manuscript] Quarrel (played by John Kitzmiller) is a fictional character from Dr. No. He is a Jamaican fisherman and boatman, and sidekick to James Bond. When they visit an island with a legendary "dragon" (a tank with a flame thrower), Quarrel is killed by flames from the tank. (In a later movie, his son, Quarrel Junior, has a role). A quire, in medieval times, was a collection of 4 sheets of paper folded and put into a book, creating 16 pages. (In the modern day, it refers to 25 sheets of paper, or one twentieth of a ream).
QS	Quasar quartersaws quicksilver (Quasar divides a vial of mercury into four parts for use in building a new technologically advanced weapon) [quicksilver=a vial of liquid (toxic) mercury; quartersaws=saws into four parts] <Wisconsin> Quicksilver is a term for mercury, a metal which is liquid at room temperature. It forms little beads or peas, shiny like the Chicago Bean, when poured out. Quasar's ability to handle the energy of the quantum bands he wears on his wrists depends on his "go-with-the-flow" attitude. He harnesses huge amounts of energy. "The Quasars' powers are derived from the pair of Quantum Bands fused to the bearer's wrists (or more specifically, from the seven gems on each of the bands). The bands are permanently affixed to the wrists; while he or she can make light bend around them so they appear to be invisible, they are still tangible. They are linked to their wearer's nervous system and grant tremendous powers of energy manipulation" And re stars: "A mercury-manganese star is a type of chemically peculiar star with a prominent spectral line at 398.4 nm, due to absorption from ionized mercury." They have a lot of mercury in their atmospheres. 
QT	Questa quits Qantas (Mrs. Questa stops taking flying vacations) [quits=leaves; Qantas=a small airplane] /quantas/ I imagine Mrs. Questa deciding to spend her time exclusively attending Cincinnati Reds games with her family, instead of flying to vacation destinations. Q.A.N.T.A.S.= Queensland And Northern Territory Aerial Services 
QU	Qu queues a quorum (Qu Yuan causes a line of concerned boaters to come onto the river to save him) [queues=lines object up in a row of pre-existing similar objects, or gets in a queue in a location; quorum=small group of people on a small boat] Let's say that he "queues a quorem" by causing dragon boats to line up at the beginning of the annual dragon boat festivities. Qu Yuan (c. 340–278 BC) was a Chinese poet and politician. He wrote ancient texts that are still read today. He was forced out and wandered the countryside. He eventually committed an honorable suicide by wandering into a river carrying a rock. The annual Dragon Boat Festival is in his honor. The idea is to search for his body. [special note for Qi & Qu: Pinyin (/peenyeen/) is a system developed by and for Chinese people to use Roman letters to represent Chinese sounds, to aid in unification and education. The Q sound is like a lighter /ch/, with the tongue close to the /t/ position. Having researched this, I will now proceed, for the purposes of my system only, to pronounce Qi and Qu as "kee" and "koo", just so I don't drive myself crazy]
QV	Quaver quivers a quaver (Quaver stockpiles quavers to shoot at his audience) [quaver=one of my 5" tall plastic eighth notes; quivers=puts into a quiver, readies or stockpiles to use as a weapon] Quaver is a British-accented character from the music-education program "Quaver".
QW	Quadsworth quillworks quikwall (Gordon Wadsworth makes a large, intricate quillwork pouch to hold the bags of quikwall he attaches to his bike for weight training) [quillworks=adorns object with a quill work; quikwall=a bag of quikwall] <Roanoke, Virginia> Gordon Wadsworth is a single-speed mountain bike racer. He goes around the world winning races and coaching and inspiring people. He has a lot of positive energy. He has enormous thighs, and sports a moustache. He hails from Roanoke, VA, where he lives with his wife and his dog. Quillwork is a textile technique employed uniquely in North America, and can be found from Maine to Alaska in Native American traditions. it uses porcupine quills in the design. The quills are naturally white with black tips, but take dye well. Quillwork was common before the introduction of glass beads. Quillwork is still practices by many people and is a symbol of cultural identity. Quikwall is like quikrete: It comes in a bag, you mix it with water, then you spread it on the exterior of, say, a concrete block wall for greater strength and weatherproofing.
QX	Quixall quixxes quoxwood (Albert Quixall repairs a scratch in a quoxwood cabinet) [quixxes=fixes a scratch in, with Quixx; quoxwood: I picture a giant cartoon tree. Or it could be a glowing, magical board cut from a tree] Quixx is an automotive product and is short for "quick fix". You rub the product into a paint scratch on your car, using progressively finer sandpaper, and it makes the scratch virtually disappear. There is something mythical about Albert Quixall's rise to stardom which makes an association with the mythical quoxwood seem plausible. He was an English soccer player. 1958 was the year of the Munich Air Disaster. A plane carrying the Manchester United football team, and supporters, crashed on its third attempted takeoff (it ran into slush on the runway which slowed it down), and half the passengers, 20 people, including 6 Manchester players, were killed. In the aftermath, Quixall was hired by manager Matt Busby for a record sum of 47,000/year pounds, to help re-build. He was dubbed the "Golden Boy" in the press, for his skill, blond hair, and confidence. In one full-page newspaper spread where he talks about his goals and encourages young people to succeed, the headline reads: "I'm not big-headed-- just determined". After an initial string of 7 losses, the team had a string of victories which put them in second place for the year. While never reaching what some considered his full promised potential for the team, he helped in the rebuilding process and was an excellent player for a number of years. After retirement from athletics, Quixall ran a scrap metal business, so he was familiar with metal and scratches in metal, and he worked as joiner, which is a woodworker specializing in joinery, early in his life, so working with quoxwood makes sense. 
QY	Quayle quaycrafts a quoy (Vice President Dan Quayle is kept busy making a model of a greenblotch parrotfish using toothpicks during a trip to Samoa) [quaycrafts=makes a 2-D model with toothpicks] <Samoa> {Dan Quayle, at a microphone at an airport gate making a speech, with a lei} Quaycraft is a company that makes and sells model kits for beautiful, tiny boats. A Quoyi or Quoy's parrotfish (named after 1800's zoologist Jean Rene Constant Quoy), is a beautiful purple-blue-green fish (shaped like a crappie) found in western Pacific coral reefs. Concerning Dan Quayle's world travels: "Dan Quayle had not done much traveling abroad before he became Vice President. But now that Mr. Quayle has joined the White House, he is seeing the world. And the world is seeing him. And there is a bit of bewilderment on both sides... President Bush has told Mr. Quayle that he wants him to travel as much as he [Bush] did when he held the second spot. Since Vice President Bush went to 76 countries, many of them more than once, Mr. Quayle will probably be on the road a great deal as a roving United States ambassador... Mr. Quayle has said his biggest surprise as Vice President has been how much he enjoys the foreign travel. But one adviser concedes that Mr. Quayle is starting with 'a low base of knowledge' about politics and culture in other parts of the world... On a brief stop in Samoa on the way to Australia, the Vice President donned leis and looked out eagerly at the island's Gauguin lushness and the welcoming reception of several dozen residents in Pago Pago (pronounced Pango Pango by natives and Pogo Pogo by Mr. Quayle). The Innocent Abroad bubbled over the sunny paradise... 'You all look like happy campers to me,' he told the Samoans. 'Happy campers you are, happy campers you have been, and, as far as I am concerned, happy campers you will always be.' ''
	
	R is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
RA	Ra ra-ra's a Rastafarian (Ra encourages a Rastafarian) Ra is the Egyptian sun god, and leader of all the gods. He was often depicted as a man with the head of a Hawk and the sun disk above him. Ra was born each morning in the East, and died each night in the West. During the night he traveled through the underworld. "Seth was sometimes Ra’s enemy, but Seth did help Ra fight Apep, a snake god. The fact that Seth helped Ra reminded all of the gods that Seth was not all bad." Ra's powers lived in his hidden name. Only he knew his hidden name so only he could use the powers. He made people, he made the world and the heavens. "One day Isis wanted to have his powers so she sent a serpent to poison him on his daily walk. The serpents venomous bite was so painful that Ra gave in and told her his secret name of creation.Then Isis banished Ra to the Duat, (Spirit World), so Osiris her husband could be king." And as for Rastafarians: Rastafarians, who got their start in Jamaica in the 1930's, believe that Haile Selasie, Emperor of Ethiopia from 1930 - 1974, was either a prophet or the second-coming of Jesus Christ. Rastafarians have a pan-African outlook (and smoke ganja). Selasie was important in bringing different African groups together. He was deposed, then killed, by a Soviet-supported group. Relationships between Ethiopia and Egypt have been interesting over the years. They share the Nile river. so they have to negotiate about its use. I'm sure Ra would cheer Ethiopia, and by extension the Rastafarians, SOMEtimes.
RB	Robin robs a rubber (Robin steals a condom) Batman and Robin, especially the campy 1966 movie where Robin is silly and ineffective.
RC	Rice rices a racer (Jeff Rice throws rice at Kyle and Stephanie's car as they leave the wedding) [racer=red sportscar]
RD	Red reddens a rudder (Erik the Red bloodies a rudder) [reddens=paints red, or makes angry] {Erik the Red in a viking ship in cold, overcast weather, with a knife} The rudder is the flat board hanging off the back, in the water, that you steer with. I don't know if Erik the Red ever killed anyone in a boat, while exploring Iceland and Greenland, but it doesn't seem unlikely. Anyway, he WAS exiled for killing Eyiolf the Foul (who had killed his slaves, who had caused a landslide on his property), so there's some history.
RE	Reese releases reefer (Reese Witherspoon breaks up with a pothead) [releases=let's go of on a hill so that it rolls away, or decides not to sue a location] Witherspoon broke up with Jake Gyllenhaal partly because he smoked too much pot.
RF	Riff raffles ruffles (Riff goes straight and donates potato chips to charity) [raffles=stands on a stage beside a popcorn-type machine that delivers little ping pong balls with raffle numbers, and picture the object being raffled, or a map of it, sitting right there on stage as well] Riff, leader of the Jets from West Side Story, is in charge of a gang. His gang has frequent run-ins with a Puerto Rican gang (the Sharks) led by Bernardo.
RG	Reagan ragu's a rug (Ronald Reagan's policies result in ketchup --ragu-- on school rugs) [ragus=spills pasta sauce on] I picture Reagan speechifying in a school while all around him students spill ketchup on rugs, destroying the nation's public school rugs. Ragu is a brand of pasta sauce, but it is also simply a style of pasta sauce from Italy. Ragu sauce always has meat, and is thicker than most sauces. The most famous variant is ragu bolognese. During Reagan's presidency, some of his bureaucrats tried to pass off ketchup as a vegetable in school lunches. I imagine school hallways and rugs getting splashed with ketchup from the resultant over-abundant ketchup in the schools.
RH	Rush rushes a roshi (Rush Limbaugh attacks a Zen teacher) I don't have any quotes of his on Zen, but here's what he said when he was criticized for talking about a 'Jewish lobby', in what can only be interpreted as an attempt to defend himself: "You can say Jewish lobby anywhere but New York and no one will notice."
RI	Riri ridicules a rigid (Rihanna makes fun of a rigid inflatable boat from her yacht, in the Riviera) Rihana spent a month on a yacht in the Riviera. Don't know if she actually made fun of any small boats. A rigid inflatable boat (RIB) had a solid hull and inflatable sides that form a "collar". They are unsinkable, even when they take on water, and are used for many purposes including military, rescue, etc.
RJ	Raj rejects a ramjet (Raj Patel rejects missiles as a way of solving problems) Raj Patel, Indian British American. The guy who is "not" Maitreya. Claims to have been tear gassed on 4 continents. Organizer of the WTO protest in Seattle in 1999. One of his books: "Stuffed and Starved". He is "the rock star of social justice writing." Most of his activism focuses on the economics of food inequality. I didn't find much about his opinions on war, but he probably isn't a fan, right? A ramjet is a special kind of jet engine used on missiles and some planes. It was first developed in 1914. It uses the force of the incoming air as a tool for air compression, and it is great at supersonic speeds but is non-functional at zero airspeed, so it needs a secondary jet engine to bring the vehicle up to speed. A ramjet has a typical jet engine shape, but narrow. A typical ramjet might be 5 feet long.
RK	Riker rocks a rocket (Will Riker does a great job commanding a space ship) [rocks= sits in a rocking chair with, or performs in a rock concert in a location] Will Riker, "Number One" under Picard, Star Trek, The Next Generation
RL	Raleigh rolls a rollie (Sir Walter Raleigh rolls a cigarette) [rolls=rolls along the ground, or overturns as with a car; rollie=a real slang word for self-rolled cigarette] {at the wheel of a sailing ship, smoking a cigar} Sir Walter Raleigh, for whom Raleigh, NC is named was a British knight and character. He is famous for introducing tobacco to England. He was active in colonizing the Americas. He invented (or popularized) El Dorado, the legendary city of Gold in South America, and led at least one voyage to find it. He illegally married a member if the Queen's court and was temporarily imprisoned for it. He fought in wars in France, and helped put down an Irish rebellion. He was executed by King James, for sacking a Spanish outpost in South America in violation of a British treaty with Spain.
RM	Rahm rims a roma (Rahm Emmanuel's farmer's market program is a slam dunk) [rims=throws into a circular trash can or dumpster, as if making a basketball shot] Rahm Emmanuel is a former mayor of Chicago. He was Obama's chief of staff for two years, then became Chicago mayor for eight years. He supported farmer's markets, and programs to use food stamps at farmer's markets (and he has a drink, the Rum Emmanuel, named after him, which is more than most people can say)
RN	Ronnie reins a roan (Ronald Reagan rides a horse) [reins=uses ribbon to attach a helium balloon to, in order to keep track of] {Ronald Reagan on horseback on his ranch in southern California, with cowboy hat} Roan coloring for a horse: The body has white hairs mixed evenly with brown or black or something dark, creating a light brown or gray appearance. On the legs, mane, and head, there are no white hairs, so the dark color is all that is left. A rein is a strap for a horse, and comes from latin meaning "a bond, check,... to hold back". When you tie a balloon to a child's hand at a Festival, it's partly to keep them in check, to keep track of them, so this sentence fits pretty well with the original meaning of "rein".
RO	Roo roots a roo (Kanga gives baby roo his strengthening medicine, made of a plant root) [roo=kangaroo; roots=plants or half-buries in the ground, or plants trees in a location]
RP	Rip rips a rope (Rip Van Winkle crosses the finish line tape of life first due to a long sleep) [rips=rips in half, or rips a piece off, or rips a tag off, or rips the clothing of; rope=a coil of rope like you would see hanging from a cowboy's saddle] Story by Irving Washington, 1819, Catskills. Written while in England for a spell. Ne'er-do-well Rip Van Winkle goes up a mountain with his dog, meets some mysterious old men playing nine-pin (the source of the sound of thunder), drinks a beverage and falls asleep for 21 years, sleeping through the American Revolution. He returns to town and no one recognizes him, he gets in trouble for pledging allegiance to the king, then one old woman recognizes him. His grown daughter takes him in.
	
	
RQ	Raquel racquets a racquetball (Raquel Welch plays racquetball, probably while wearing a skimpy bikini) Racquetballs are usually blue. Racquel Welch was born in Chicago, and moved to LA when she was two years old. She did a stint as a weather forecaster in San Diego at one point. Her second movie featured the doe-skin bikini that made her famous. She has won many awards for acting, beyond being a sex symbol. A little family background: Her father was an aeronautical engineer from La Paz, Bolivia, and her cousin Lidia Gueiler Tejada became the first female President of Bolivia, and the second female head of state in the Americas.
RR	
RS	Ross raises a rosé (Ross Geller from "Friends" raises a glass of wine in a toast) Ross is the sophisticate of the group, and is a wine drinker. In season 6 Episode 8, “The One With Ross’ Teeth”, he can be seen with a product placement, drinking Ruffini Wine on a date. "A rosé is a type of wine that incorporates some of the color from the grape skins, but not enough to qualify it as a red wine. It may be the oldest known type of wine, as it is the most straightforward to make with the skin contact method."
RT	Rhett rates a rat (Rhett McLaughlin rates a rodent) [rates: picture a game show, or a person with a clipboard] <North Carolina> Rhett and Link rate a lot of things, why not a rat? "Rhett & Link are an American comedy duo consisting of Rhett McLaughlin and Charles Lincoln "Link" Neal III. Self-styled as "Internetainers", they are known for creating and hosting the YouTube series Good Mythical Morning."
RU	Rumi rues a ruru (Rumi regrets tying two birds together) [rues=regrets having knocked over, or having visited (object)] A ruru, also called a morepork, is a Tasmanian/New Zealand owl with a distinctive two-toned call. They are small and brown. Until recently they were thought to be the same species as the Australian boobook. Rumi quote: "Tie two birds together. They will not be able to fly, even though they now have four wings." (How did he know??) Rumi is one of the greatest poets in recorded history. He lived in the 13th century in Persia (Iran). Here's one more poem, in a more serious vain: "Your grief for what you've lost lifts a mirror up to where you are bravely working. Expecting the worst, you look, and instead, here's the joyful face you've been wanting to see. Your hand opens and closes and opens and closes. If it were always a fist or always stretched open, you would be paralysed. Your deepest presence is in every small contracting and expanding, the two as beautifully balanced and coordinated as birdwings."
RV	Ravi reveals a raven (Ravi Shankar's tutelage of George Harrison results on a song about a bird) [reveals=brings out from behind a desk or facade] The Beatles' song "Norweigian Wood (This bird has flown) was the first Rock sing to feature the sitar (played by George Harrison). Classical sitar player Ravi Shankar toured the world from the 1960's through the 2000's. He famously taught George Harrison of the Beatles and collaborated with violinist Yehudi Menuhin. Shankar got his start onstage in his brother's dance company, touring Europe, then made a decision to quit to study Indian classical music. After a 6-year apprenticeship he began a performing career. He became famous to the 1960's hippies through George Harrison, and performed at Woodstock. But he did not approve of their drug use and thought that music involved a sacred relationship with God. He was particularly upset when he saw Jimi Hendrix set his guitar on fire, since musical instruments were to be revered as close to God. Shankar won numerous honors from the Indian government. He was a composer of ragas and other music, and contributed to the music for the movie "Gandhi".
RW	Rowan rows a rottweiler (Rowan Blanchard rows a dog in a rowboat) [rows=rows object in a rowboat] Rowan Blanchard, born in LA to two yoga instructors. Teen actor, aspiring director, and hard worker. "Blanchard is a public activist in areas such as feminism, human rights, and gun violence." She starred in "Spy Kids", then "Girl Meets World." She does have a big dog, though he's not a rottweiler. His name is Winston, and he looks like he might be a golden retriever. She is from LA, and there are pictures of her at a lake, so no doubt she has rowed a boat at some point. Rottweilers: The dog who chases Verne and RJ in "Over the Hedge" is a rottweiler. They are large and strong, but also friendly, gentle and loyal.
RX	Roxanne refluxes a rax (Darryl Hannah from the movie "Roxanne" gets acid reflux just from the thought of eating a rax burger) [refluxes= eats a piece of (object), like a hair or a screw, then gets acid reflux] Rax is a fast food store specializing in roast beef sandwiches. Roxanne in Steve Martin's movie "Roxanne" is played by Darryl Hannah, who is a vegetarian and environmental activist. She was arrested at a keystone pipeline protest. "Daryl Hannah went vegan after playing with a calf and soon learning it would become veal the next day. Hannah is a passionate environmental activist and regularly posts and vlogs about animal rights on her website." 
RY	Rey rayguns rye (Rey shoots up a bar where there is rye whiskey) [rye=a bottle of rye whiskey] Rey from Star Wars. Rye whiskey is a light golden brown color. Some bottles are shaped like wine bottles. Others have that flatter, flask shape. "American rye whiskey... must be distilled from at least 51 percent rye grain"
	
	S is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
SA	Sara Saabs salsa (Sara breaks up with her man, then drives away with celebratory salsa and other festive foods) {Sara, played by Rebecca De Mornay, in a farmyard with a car key} Sara is from the Jefferson Starship song "Sara". ("Sara! Sara! Storms are brewing in your eyes") In the music video, Sara walks out of the farm house and ditches the lead singer guy, driving off into the sunset. Don't know the make of the car, but it may as well be a Saab. In the music video, Sara is played by Rebecca De Mornay, whose big hit was the starring role in "Risky Business" alongside Tom Cruise. In the Sara video, the lead singer and Sara are pictured (via flashbacks) on a farm having lots of fun, before she drives off, leaving him forever.
SB	Seb sabres a sub (Sebastian cuts a submarine sandwich) [sabres=cuts with sword] {Sebastian in his living room near a couch, with a bag of tater tots}
SC	Sacco secures a soccerball (Nikola Sacco gets himself a soccerball in Mexico) [secures=straps in] Sacco of Sacco and Vanzetti. They both took refuge in Mexico to avoid WWI. My sources say that soccer is the most popular sport in Mexico. Sacco and Vanzetti were executed, probably wrongfully, in 1927 for robbery and murder. The trials and appeals lasted seven years, and there were mass protests in their support, and riots, in major cities all around the world as people watched the news. Both men were members if anarchist groups, and both had pistols on them when they were arrested, but they also both had alibis and people supporting their story. Their defense lawyer dis not provide a strong defense, and the judge's behavior was unusual. The trial was fuelled largely by, and overtly filled with, anti-Italian sentiment. "By the summer of 1927 it became clear that Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti would be executed. Vanzetti commented to a journalist: "If it had not been for this thing, I might have lived out my life talking at street corners to scorning men. I might have died, unmarked, unknown, a failure. Now we are not a failure. This is our career and our triumph. Never in our full life can we hope to do such work for tolerance, justice, for man's understanding of man, as now we do by accident. Our words - our lives - our pains - nothing! The taking of our lives - lives of a good shoemaker and a poor fish peddler - all! That last moment belong to us - that agony is our triumph."
SD	Sid suds a saddle (Sid Freedman washes the saddle of Colonel Potter's horse with a sponge) <Korea> Sid Freedman, the psychiatrist from the TV show MASH. Often drinks with Hawkeye and BJ.
SE	Seeger seals a seed (Pete Seeger plants a seed and covers it with dirt) [seals=closes an envelope or package containing (object), with intent to mail it; seed=pumpkin seed] {Seeger onstage in Carnegie Hall, with his banjo} Pete Seeger was a folk singer with an outsized influence on American life. He planted many seeds in our great land. He started off in the 30's as a pro-union songwriter, then sang with the Weavers (he wrote the songs "The Lion Sleeps Tonight", and "If I Had a Hammer"), and emerged as a leader of the vibrant folk music scene of the 1960's.
SF	Saffron souffles a surface (Saffron Burrows destroys an enigma machine) [surface=Microsoft SurfacePro; souffles=causes to puff up and be destroyed by baking, cooking over a spit, or causing to sit in a sauna] {Saffron as Claire Romilly at a wedding, sitting in white chairs, from the trailer for Enigma. "Ehw (oh), it's YOU. Yew found my slippa!"} Saffron Burrows, English actor with a low alto voice and British accent. She plays Claire Romilly in the movie "Enigma", whose characters are all working to defeat the enigma matching during WWII. She has been in many movies, including a couple with Salma Hayek. She played Victoria Hand in the first season of "Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D." She's an activist and has socialist leanings. Her parents are socialists. Meanwhile she has the awkward problem of having a ton of money from being a movie star. Raised in England, spent 5 teenage years in France. Is now an American citizen and married to a woman named Alison. A souffle is a baked egg dish that puffs up while baking.
SG	Siggy smuggles a siggi (Siggy Flicker sneaks a yogurt) <Israel> Siggi: Icelandic-style yogurt. I like Siggy Flicker despite my better judgment. She is an outspoken television personality and professional matchmaker. She was on "Real Housewives of New Jersey" for two years (A low point: she takes away her 13-year-old daughter's phone, on camera, on the drive home from school, after the phone was involved in her daughter's detention). Her advice to couples is so much like Tina Fey's during the period where Lemon almost got her own show, that I wonder if Fey copied Flicker specifically. Flicker is upfront about surgeries, facelifts, and her hysterectomy. She moved to New Jersey from Israel when she was 5 years old. She is passionate about holocaust awareness. Her father escaped Nazi-occupied France in 1943 with the help of a Catholic priest, and eventually became a Holocaust scholar and professor in Israel, presenting to the United Nations at one point. Siggy's full name is Sigalit (see-ga-leet), and she married a man with the last name "Flicker".
SH	Sasha smashes sushi (Sasha Obama smashes sushi in frustration) Sasha is the younger of Barack and Michelle's two daughters. (Malia is the older). In 2016, at age 15 or so, Sasha worked for Nancy's, a seafood restaurant in Martha's Vineyard. They have a sushi bar. everyone gets angry at work sometimes, right? Even an Obama? So I imagine her smashing sushi in frustration, perhaps at getting stuck with a bum shift.
SI	Sirius sidesteps a scimitar (Sirius Black avoids a blow from a magical sword) [sidesteps=steps to the side in disgust as object goes by on a cart] A scimitar is a short, curved one-sided sword, originated in the east, not Europe. Sirius Black is Harry Potter's godfather. 
SJ	Sojourner sijo's a straitjacket (Sojourner Truth reads poetry about slavery) [sijos=holds a scroll and reads a contemplative poem about (subject)] {Sojourner Truth speaking onstage at a town hall meeting, with a bible} "Sojourner Truth was an American abolitionist and women's rights activist. Truth was born into slavery in Swartekill, New York, but escaped with her infant daughter to freedom in 1826. After going to court to recover her son in 1828, she became the first black woman to win such a case against a white man." A sijo is a 3-line poem from Korea. Sijo are quiet and contemplative, and can speak of a relationship between the person and object. Sijo: "A Korean verse form related to haiku... and comprised of three lines of 14-16 syllables each. Each line contains a pause near the middle, similar to a caesura. Originally intended as songs, sijo can treat romantic, metaphysical, or spiritual themes. Whatever the subject, the first line introduces an idea or story, the second supplies a “turn,” and the third provides closure." Example: "You ask how many friends I have? Water and stone, bamboo and pine./ The moon rising over the eastern hill is a joyful comrade./ Besides these five companions, what other pleasure should I ask"
SK	Sukey sinks a sack (Sukey removes her sack after a sack race, or suggests another person remove theirs) [sinks=throws into water; sack=big burlap potato sack] <Ohio>
SL	Sal sells a sail (Sally Ride sells a sailboat) I imagine her selling a sailboat to raise money to buy a spaceship.
SM	Sam semis salmon (Sam Schwantes gets a job shipping salmon in a truck) [semis=drives object in a semi]
SN	Sunny sani's a seiner (Sunny sanitizes and cleans a fishing boat) ??Sunny sanis a seiner?? Seiner or purse seiner. The classic-shaped big fishing net.
SO	Sosa soots a sooner (Sammy Sosa rockets the ball to home plate from the outfield, forcing a runner to --unsuccessfully-- slide) [soots=puts on make-up dirt to make look dirty as a movie prop; sooner=football player, in full gear, from the Oklahoma Sooners] <Dominican Republic> {Sammy Sosa, either at the plate slugging another homer, or in the locker room with his boombox} Sammy Sosa (Dominican born) was one of the most prolific homerun hitters of all-time, one of 9 players to hit 600+ career homers. As an outfielder, everyone agrees he had a huge arm. The only disagreement is on whether his arm was a "rocket" or a "cannon." He also had a big ego, and had a guy carry his boombox all over the country to games so he could play tunes loudly in the locker room (until another player smashed it with a baseball bat in 2004).
SP	Supa supplies supper (Supa Hot Fire brings home the bacon with his YouTube earnings) [supplies=provides in a shady, black-market way, perhaps via a trench coat pocket]
	
	
SQ	Sasquatch sequesters a sequin (Bigfoot hides away a shiny bauble he finds) [Sasquatch: if it helps, can picture Chewbacca] To sequester is to hide away, exile. Sequin: Arabic Sikka, to Italian zecca then zecchino. Has meant coin and mint. Sasquatch etymology- a word from Salish, a language of a native group from the Pacific Northwest.
SR	Soren surrenders Sorry (Soren Kierkegaard stops playing silly games) [Sorry=the board game] Kierkegaard, Copenhagen, Denmark, 1813 - 1855. Born to a wealthy family. His mother had been a servant in his father's house before they married. He famously called off an engagement to a woman. He lived, I think, on inheritance money from his father. "He used to be called 'fork' by his father, because of his tendency, developed quite early, toward satirical remarks." "Much of his philosophical work deals with the issues of how one lives as a "single individual", giving priority to concrete human reality over abstract thinking " (like playing games like "Sorry"
SS	
ST	Saturn sautees a setter (the god Saturn fries an Irish setter) Saturn ate his own children, so why not a dog too? Saturn (Greek equivalent Cronus) is the father of Jupiter (Zeus). Saturn heard a prophecy that his son would overthrow him, so he ate all his children as they were born. But Jupiter's mother Ops hid Jupiter and gave Saturn a stone wrapped in swaddling clothes to eat. When Jupiter grew up, he came back, made Saturn vomit it up all his children, and with his siblings Jupiter overthrew Saturn and the Titans. An Irish Setter is similar in size to a golden retriever. The setter is a darker, reddish brown.
SU	Sue sutures Sulu (Susan wins an opportunity to be on Star Trek, and plays a role fixing up Sulu in the medical unit) [sutures=mends a torn (object) with thread] When George Takai (Sulu) first heard they were thinking of starting Star Trek conventions he said to himself "These people are foolish"
SV	Seven saves a savoy (Jeri Ryan, a.k.a. "Seven of Nine", saves a cabbage for her daughter) [saves=puts into a hope chest (or "cedar chest" or "glory box") then carries it around] A savoy is a kind of cabbage. They are deep green, and deeply crinkled. They are winter vegetables, and are named after the Savoy region of France. Jeri Ryan really does like cabbage. "The actress, who’ll play 'ball-busting' attorney Parice Larue in the episode to air April 7th, terms her time as a stay-at-home mom as idyllic. 'Gisele loves to be outdoors, and we garden together,' says Ryan, whose vegetable garden includes broccoli, cabbage and carrots. 'She’s a great eater. Any green vegetable, she’ll go to town on. She has a very adventurous palate.' ”
SW	Sowash saws a sandwich (Rick Sowash cuts a sandwich during a dinner at which he'll be making a presentation) Rick Sowash is a composer and speaker in Ohio. "He's made presentations based on his book, "Heroes of Ohio: 23 True Tales of Courage and Character," to 2,000 Ohio schools, charging $950 a day and often selling 300 to 400 books per presentation. For many years, he also made presentations to county boards, trade associations and other groups in need of an AFTER-DINNER speaker, for which he charged $500 and also reaped some book sales." He has held public office, is from small town Ohio, writes music his grandma would like, has been married 47 years, makes a lot of money as a speaker, writes books, including the one about 23 Ohioans, owns a three story house in Over the Rhine (rents the top two floors). Was inspired by two middle school music teachers who taught him to read music, then recruited him to write music for the band. Is good at marketing (wrote a Father's Day Suite, which now gets airtime every Father's Day). Every time he makes a new CD he sends it to all 156 classical music stations in the country with a cover letter, and he knows many of those folks personally. He wrote a song called Dark Forest, and he says the heart of another person, even a loved one, is always a dark forest. His music is tonal and pretty accessible.
SX	Sax sixes a sax (Adolphe Sax removes and hides a saxophone) [sixes=throws out, abandons] "Deep-sixes" means "abandons, throws out". Refers to (1) In frustration, he abandoned his saxophone patent proceedings for one year, challenging anyone to make a worthy one. When none could, he re-applied and got the patent!! (2) Early on, he once played his saxophone behind a curtain so that no one would see it and copy the design. How many wonderful stories about Adolphe Sax can a person tell? Nearly died half a dozen times as a child, parents were both instrument makers, led the Paris instrument making scene but was dought and blocked by other instrument makers, held musical duels with his adversaries, had Berlioz for a hero, beat lip cancer, invented several instruments still used today... )
SY	Sly skyhooks a scythe (Sly Stone throws humanity's weapons in the trash can) [skyhooks=skyhooks (object) into a basketball basket] scythe- the thing carried by the grim reaper. A curved blade for cutting grass or wheat. Sly Stone, innovator. He headed a multi-racial, multi-gender band, and his psychedelic funk sound changed the world. He shone bright for a brief time, and then had drug troubles. He continues to perform for decades though) Lyrics to one of his later songs: "Been so high, I touched the sky and the sky says 'Sly, why you tryin' to get by?' Comin' back for more."
	
	T is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
TA	Tara tada's a tata (Tara flashes someone)
TB	Toby tubs a tuber (Toby Flenderson washes a potato) [tuber=potato; tubs=throws into a bathtub, or takes a hot tub in location] Toby, from the sitcom "The Office", is played by Paul Lieberstein, whose main role with the show is as a writer. Lieberstein was asked to work on a spinoff for Dwight, tentatively called "The Farm", which never materialized, but I imagine Lieberstein doing some immersive character-acting work scrubbing potatoes in preparation for writing "The Farm".
TC	Taco talcums a tomcat (Bicyclist Taco Van der Hoorn puts baby powder on his groin) Talcum, mixed with corn starch, is baby powder. Talc is a very soft mineral, it's found in soapstone. Taco Van der Hoorn. Taco is a common Dutch first name. Apparently it's pronounced /yacko/ but I'm going to overlook that. Taco is a 24-year old enthusiastic bicycle racer who has won lots of races.
TD	Ted tidies a toddler (Ted Chodock cleans up a toddler and puts him in his highchair) [tidies=puts back in its drawer or shelf, or its natural environment or place of residence] <Nevada> Ted Chodock is an award-winning librarian in Nevada. 
TE	Teenie tees a teen (musician Teenie gives a t-shirt to a fan) [tee= to put a tee-shirt onto] "Teenie" Hodges (Mabon Lewis Hodges) was a 1970's soul music guitarist from Memphis, Tennessee who co-wrote songs with Al Green and others including "Take me to the River", famously covered by the Talking Heads. Hobo Jim personally gave me a tee-shirt at Talkeetna so maybe Teenie did the same thing for a fan.
TF	Tiffani tofus teff (Tiffani Thiessen puts tofu on a teff injera --tortilla-- ) [tofus=throws tofu at; teff=injera] Injera is one thing you can make with teff. It resembles an extra-large tortilla, but it is riddled with little holes and rips easily. Teff, a.k.a.Williams Lovegrass, was one of the first grains cultivated, 4000-1000 B.C., in the horn of Africa. It is the dominant crop, and food, of Ethiopia. The word "teff" may come from the word "lost", perhaps because the seeds are tiny, 1 mm. Because of their size, they take less fuel to heat. Teff makes up 2/3 of the protein intake of Ethiopians. Its stalk is used to feed cattle, and as a building material with mud. It is made into an alcoholic beverage. When teff found a world market, the government was worried that what happened in South Africa with quinoa would happen in Ethiopia (not enough domestic teff for local consumption) so for several years there was a strict ban on exports. Tiffani Thiessen, from "90210", "Pandemic". Dinner at Tiffani's is a show where Hollywood star Thiessen invites famous people over and cooks for them. Rosy cheeks, big smile, big smile. German, Greek, Turkish, Welsh descent. Credits brother Todd with being a creative inspiration. Crowned Miss Junior America 1987. But has had many serious roles. High school valedictorian.
TG	Tigger tags a tiger (Tigger chases his own tail) [tags=puts on a price tag, to sell] Tigger, the original poster child for ADHD, plays tag with himself, or chases his own tail
TH	Tash trashes a tush (the god Tash eats the soul of a person from Calormen) [trashes=throws in the trash, or wrecks a location; tush=bottom, or love interest] Taah is a C.S. Lewis character, the god of Calormen. "They have a god called Tash. They say he has four arms and the head of a vulture. They kill men on his altar."
TI	Titi tightens a titi (Titi Marisol hugs a New World monkey closer) [titi=Aunt; tightens=tightens the rope (or string) around an object] Titi means Aunt in Puerto Rico. And it turns out Puerti Rico does in fact have monkeys, though not in the way you would expect. There is a small island less than a mile from Puerto Rico that is home to a population of old world monkeys (rhesus macaque monkeys) that were introduced there in 1938 for research purposes. Their habitat was devastated by the 2017 hurricane, but they are pulling through. Titi: copper-colored, long-furred, soft-furred new world monkey. New World monkeys branched off from old world 40 million years ago. in general, they have less color vision. They have flatter noses, with nostrils to the side. They are arboreal, thus more elusive and less studied than old world monkeys. They do more paternal child rearing. They lack opposable thumbs.
TJ	Taj twinjets a tearjerker (musician Taj Mahal reads "The Yearling" while flying in a plane on tour) [twinjets=flies on a plane with; tearjerker=book] <Harlem> Many airliners are twinjets, it's a common pattern. Two jets is safer than one, more fuel efficient than four. Blues musician Taj Mahal goes on an international tour, including flying by the Taj Mahal on a jet. Where to start with this guy? Born in Harlem, moved to Springfield, MA around age 10. His father was a well-regarded jazz musician and his parents were in Harlem during the Harlem Renaissance. Taj was a farm foreman and loved farming, getting an agriculture degree in college. His father was an accomplished musician, and died in a construction accident in the company he owned (overturned tractor) when Taj was 12. He played with the Rolling Stones and many others. At age 77, he has 5 different bands and he writes different styles for each so he can hear different sounds. “Howard and Bob had a band, Substructure, that had seven tuba players, piano, bass and drums. I was like: ‘What? Let me hear this!’ I did, and I was knocked out. I was ready to jump into something different. It was clear I should do what I wanted. I didn’t want to get to a point, later in life, of saying: ‘Man, I had these ideas...’ If I hear something I like and want to work it in, that’s what I do.” ...and... "Nobody can pay me to play music. They can pay me to put up with all of what I have to do in order to get to play music. But I play music for free. That’s why it sounds like it does. I’m a free man and will express myself freely through the music." Re touring: "Like other American blues and jazz greats before him, Mahal has been embraced by audiences in Europe, Japan, Africa and South America. Those audiences often display greater respect for, and knowledge of, rootsy American music than audiences here.
TK	Takei tackles a tack (George Takei takes on the subject of school bullying) [tack=thumbtack] George Takei played Sulu on Star Trek. He now advocates for a variety of political causes
TL	Tell tallies a tiller (William Tell does inventory on his farming equipment) [tiller=the long stick attached to a small sailboat's rudder] Tiller is a legit word for the blade that tills the soil. William Tell no doubt did some farming when be wasn't hunting with his crossbow. The Swiss story of William Tell is a wonderful story that is probably a fable, particularly as there are several other stories, one from Denmark 100 years earlier, that share some critical details) William Tell is a folk hero in Switzerland. In 1307 he assassinated a hapsburg ruler. The ruler had been displeased with Tell for not bowing to him. Tell and his son were arrested. The ruler said that Tell, a renowned crossbow marksman, could go free IF he could shoot an arrow off his son's head. He drew two arrows, planning that if he killed his son by accident, he would also kill the ruler. But he made his shot. He killed the ruler with an arrow at a later date. Tell, or the story of Tell, was an inspiration to many generations of Swiss people who fought to be free of foreign rule.
TM	Tom terminates a team (Tom Bombadil stops the Nazgul) [terminates=shoots with an uzi, which is the compact semi-automatic weapon that Arnold Schwarzenegger uses as the "Terminator"; team=team of horses] Okay, Tom Bombadil never goes up against the Nazgul in "Lord of the Rings"; only the barrow-wights. But he would put an end to their skulduggery if he ever met up with them. Also, Tom Bombadil has his own team of horses too, but they aren't involved in this sentence: "At the home of Tom Bombadil, the ponies became friends with Fatty Lumpkin, a pony of Tom's. At the Barrow-downs they became so frightened that they ran off to find Fatty. Tom called them all back with the names he had given them: Sharp-ears, Bumpkin, Wise-nose, Swish-tail, and White-socks. "
TN	Tan tines a tuna (Amy Tan spears a tuna with a fork) [tines=spears with a fork, or dines in elegant restaurants in location] Amy Tan is from Oakland, CA, and people in the Bay Area eat a lot of seafood. Tan is the author of "The Joy Luck Club" and other books. A tuna is a very large fish. Yellowfin tuna have a yellow fin on top reminiscent of a bluegill's, the bones giving an appearance of corrugated cardboard.
TO	Toofer toes toto (Toofer touches a small dog apprehensively with his toe) [toes=touches with toe apprehensively] {Toofer, with his argyle (diamond pattern) sweater, in the writer's room} Toofer from 30 Rock. He seems like someone who would be up tight and unsure about something messy like a dog. Toofer is played by actor Keith Powell. Toto: in the "Wizard of Oz" movie, was a small brown dog, a cairn terrier. "The Cairn Terrier is a terrier breed originating in the Scottish Highlands and recognized as one of Scotland's earliest working dogs. The breed was given the name Cairn because the breed's function was to hunt and chase quarry between the cairns in the Scottish highlands"
TP	Tipper tips a top (Tipper Gore up-ends the status quo) [top=spinning top] Tipper Gore, wife of Al Gore for 40 years before divorcing. Mover and shaker for many issues. LGBT, women's issues, record profanity labeling (dubbed "censorship" by Frank Zappa and others), visited Rwanda after the genocide on behalf of children. Also, she was a professional photographer, and she is a drummer. She has played drums with Mickey Hart and the Grateful Dead, among others. Spinning top: Spinning tops have been found dating to 3500 B.C. They have often been made of shells. In Japan, various amounts of sand are put into shells, then sealed with wax. There have been 15-pound tops used in adult games. There have had spots cut so they whistle. They have been used for religious purposes. A dreidle is a famous top.
	
	
TQ	Tocqueville tequilas turquoise (Alexis de Tocqueville spills tequila on a turquoise ring) Turquoise is a French word, and Alexis de Tocqueville did famously visit the Americas, perhaps coming near Mexico, the birthplace of tequila, so he probably definitely spilled some tequila on turquoise once.. Alexis de Tocqueville was a French aristocrat. His great-grandfather was guillotined, and his parents narrowly escaped being guillotined. He traveled to America ostensibly to study our prison system, and became a famous commentator on the young country. His big book was "Democracy in America." "Tequila is a distilled beverage made from the blue agave plant [the leaves really are blue], primarily in the area surrounding the city of Tequila" in Mexico. It is "sweet, fruity, and earthy".
TR	Tor tars a terrier (Tor Kingdon insults a Scottish Terrier) [tars=spreads tar on as an insult] {Tor with his dog in his garden with shady tree, holding a laptop} Tor has a Norweigian and Scottish heritage, but in this case the Norweigian blood gets the better of him. Fun fact: Tar is not hot! It bubbles at room temperature. There are tar pits (and a tar museum) in the middle of Los Angeles. The first tar-paved roads were in Baghdad, Iraq, in the 9th century, with tar from nearby fields. You can make a tar-like substance by heating corn stalks in a microwave. Tar pits are famous for capturing and preserving animals. The history of tar and tar substitutes is pretty darn fascinating! Briefly: "Tar is a dark brown or black viscous liquid of hydrocarbons and free carbon, obtained from a wide variety of organic materials through destructive distillation. Tar can be produced from coal, wood, petroleum, or peat. Mineral products resembling tar can be produced from fossil hydrocarbons, such as petroleum"
TS	Tess tosses a tassel (Tess Turbo flips a tassel on her outfit while performing) [tassel=graduation cap with tassel] Tess Turbo from Bloom County, sings raucous songs like " Scuzzbucket from Nantucket". A tassel is a tuft of threads- think graduation cap.
TT	
TU	Tut tut-tuts a tutu (King Tut expresses displeasure over new styles of dress) [tut-tuts=can picture person giving the "shame, shame" sign with the two index fingers] Let's face it, I have no idea what King Tuttenkamen would have thought of a tutu or a ballerina. Anyway, King Tut's tomb was discovered in 1922. The intactness of everything is extraordinary. He ruled around 1300 B.C. He was the last of the 18th dynasty. He ruled from age 9 to age 18. He rolled back his father's policies, returning to polytheism, restoring old idols and images. He and his wife had two children who died in infancy. One in utero at six months. One soon after birth.
TV	Tove teva's a tava (Grammy-nominated Swedish singer Tove Lo walks on a frying pan) [teva's=walks on top of] {Tove Lo onstage with a microphone and t-shirt} "Walks on a frying pan" means "gets in hot water, remains controversial" One of Tove Lo's songs in particular, "Talking Body", has made her a controversial figure. A tava is a type of frying pan used in Asia and in the Caribbean. It has a shallow, wok-like concave shape. Sometimes it is turned over, and you cook food on the convex side, for certain purposes.
TW	Tower tows a towel (David Tower tows a load with a red towel tacked to it to indicate it is oversize) [tows=gets in a pickup truck and tows behind, or drives a tow truck in location] Ashley and David Tower were brothers. They were both architects and civil and mechanical engineers. They and their company were titans of the late 1800's in designing paper mills, including the machines contained therein. They designed mills and other buildings in many countries including the UK, and Wisconsin (land of many paper mills).
TX	Tex taxies a tux (pilot Alvin "Tex" Johnston taxies a tux-wearing passenger to the runway) [taxies=taxies a plane containing (object), or taxies plane around location] Okay, this is my new favorite. Tex Johnston was a test pilot and airplane mechanic, later a business owner. No doubt he ferried some bigwigs around, wearing tuxes, now and then, but his big claim to fame was a stunt he pulled at a demonstration in Seattle in 1955, during "Seafair", which is an annual exhibition of speedboats. In that year, there was an airplane exhibition combined with Seafair. The Boeing 707 represented a giant leap forward in commercial aircraft. It was twice as fast as what had come before, and was therefore billed as making the world smaller by a factor of two. Without telling anyone his plans, Tex did a barrel roll of the giant aircraft over the heads of thousands of watchers, then did a "chantelle" turn-around maneuver, then came back the other direction and did it again ("because I knew no one would believe what they had seen the first time"). He was called into the office the following Monday morning and when asked to explain himself, said "I was selling airplanes." He was not punished, but he WAS asked not to do it again! Back when he was 15, he bought a wrecked glider, repaired it, then his dad would tow it with his truck to get up speed and Tex would cut the release cable and glide up and land in a nearby field. Tex later test-piloted, and made upgrades to, the Bell X-1, which Chuck Yeager used later the same year for the first-ever supersonic flight. He flew cargo planes in WWII (as well as doing training), and later he owned a company that made the "guppy" line of aircraft, huge oddly-shaped planes expressly made to transport large pieces of spacecraft around. Man! That's what happens when you apply yourself!
TY	Tyler types a typewriter (Tyler classifies a typewriter) [types=classifies and categorizes by putting (object) in a lineup with other (objects), after investigating and examining]
	
	U is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
UA	Uatu uada's a uakari (Uata the Watcher shouts at a stupid, Simian-acting human) [uada's=scream-shouts at, like a frontman for a death metal band] /oo-WAH-too oo-WAH-da's a oo-wah-KAH-ree/ A uakari is a South American monkey famous for its bright red face. The redness of the face can indicate the state of the monkey's health. Uatu, or "The Watcher", is a Marvel character created by Stan Lee. He is bald-headed, and looks like an overgrown baby. Uatu is assigned to watch Earth, mainly from an asteroid it seems, also from the moon, but he is compassionate and often gets mixed up in human affairs, which gets him into hot water with the other Watchers. Uada is a black metal band from Portland. A couple song titles: "Devoid of Light", "In the absence of matter". Their frontman does the thing where he screams unintelligibly into the mic for every song, while the band plays a lot of minor root chords, and occasional minor 2 chords. I'm sure it's great music for somebody; God knows I have my own interesting tastes... Most youtubers pronounce the band "yoo-AH-da", but since it clearly is beneath the band to explain their name or its pronunciation, I am going with "oo-WAH-da". Their front-man, Jake, talks in interviews about how high-energy they are onstage. They started by wearing hoodies and leather onstage. He wanted the idea of cloaks and silhouettes. They've dialed it back a little because they got too hot on stage, but they still wear hoodies, and Jake says he doesn't mind if they suffer for their art.
UB	Usborne ubers an umbrella (Peter Usborne rides in an uber with an umbrella) {a cab interior, idling on the street under Big Ben} Peter Usborne is a British publisher. It rains a lot in England, thus the umbrella. Before starting Usborne Books, he was a founding member of England's "Private Eye", an investigative paper in England that breaks a lot of interesting stories and gets sued a lot. They have bucked the trend of print media going downhill, recording record sales. sounds like UK (Bogdan Gromov, Data Scientist on GitHub, username: Uberkinder. Maybe he uses Linux Ubuntu OS, and maybe he's ridden in an uber with his laptop. ((Urbana))
UC	Unc uncrates upcourts (Uncle Bob unboxes a pair of new volleyball shoes) {Uncle Bob moving fluidly up and down the stairs in his Boulder house, carrying a bike pump} ASICS has a line of volleyball and indoor court shoes called upcourt. There's Upcourt 2 men's volleyball, upcourt 3, upcourt 4 women's court sports, etc.
UD	Uddo underlinens an udder (Adele Uddo puts a sheet under an udder as part of making her own moisturizer brand) [underlinens=puts a white sheet under, or works in hotels in a location] /OO-doh/ <New Orleans> Uddo is a parts model, short for body parts model. She has to be careful about how she uses her hands, and I imagine her starting to get obsessive about everything she does, including milking a cow. Her slogan: "Working one hand job to the next, from Manhattan to Malibu". She's one of a handful of people who do parts modeling fulltime. She was born in New Orleans to an Italian family. As a child, her parents divorced and she and her hippie mom traveled by bus to a commune in Sonoma County, where she grew up. Her grandmother told her she had nice hands. She's very down-to-earth about her job and her life. "There is an inherent absurdity to what I do". She moisturizes obsessively. She models hands and lips frequently. Also legs, earlobes, chest.
UE	Ueli uego's uelibloom (Ueli Steck mines uelibloom with an ice axe, then measures its oxygen content, with the intent of using its oxygen as he climbs higher) [uego's=sticks a pronged oxygen sensor into, to measure oxygen content] {Ueli Steck with an ice pick, on a rock face or near a tent on a ledge at high altitude} Uego means "Universal Exhaust Gas Oxygen (sensor)". It's a small spark plug-sized device that lives in your exhaust system and monitors oxygen content. Ueli Steck was a world famous Swiss alpinist and adventurer who died summiting a sub-peak of Everest in 2017, at the age of 40. He had broken off from a climbing partner on a whim to climb Everest's neighboring peak of Nuptse, as a step toward acclimatizing to the elevation of Everest. (I believe they were climbing without supplemental oxygen on that trip, which is why he had to acclimatize before the ascent of Everest). No one knows exactly what went wrong, but several climbing parties saw him fall an estimated 3000 feet. All about uelibloom ore: Calamity Mod is an extension you can get for the video game Terraria. Uelibloom ore is a substance you search for, then make things out of. It is a brownish green fossilized tree bark found in mud. You bring it to a forge and make uelibloom bars and uelibloom bricks out of it. Uelibloom requires at least a Lunar Pickaxe to mine.
UF	Uffie unfreezes urfabutter (the singer Uffie burns out and retreats into domestic life, remembering how to cook meals) [unfreezes=brings out of a freezer or walk-in freezer] {Uffie and her two children, behind her house, looking at the wide Joshua Tree National Park, holding a cup of herbal tea} Uffie is my new favorite. She was born in Miami, FL to parents of British and Japanese backgrounds. She spent part of her childhood in Hong Kong, and then France as a teenager. She was dating a musician named DJ Feadz, and he wanted her to sing on some tracks. They made "Pop the Glock" together, and she blew up. She spent the next 4 years based in Paris and touring relentlessly around around Europe, singing in clubs, then made another album, "Sex, Dreams, and Denim Jeans", then after a couple more years, and having a baby, she completely burned out from the work and the chaos and moved to Joshua Tree in California for two years and spent time with just her immediate family. Then she moved to Seattle and start getting back into the music business. She is very personable and down-to-Earth in interviews, she gives a lot of credit to collaborators. Her voice is smooth and pouty when she sings. Her dad nicknamed her "Uffie" from a combination of the French word for egg, "oeuf" and his constantly saying "Enough, enough" to her when she was a rambunctious toddler. From her touring days: "I'm a complete punk at heart, with a passion for hip hop, and I'm surrounded by electros". She has the French upside down smile, and an alto voice that sounds half Valley girl and half sophisticate. One interviewer called her "an unlikely gangster rapper". Urfabutter: Ghee is clarified butter from India. Urfabutter is clarified butter from sheep's milk, in Urfa. To make clarified butter, you melt butter, skim off the solids, then pour the butterfat, which is the clarified butter, off the solids that sank. OMG people, Urfa, like Adolphe Sax, is one of those subjects you can study for DAYS. What's not to ne amazed about? Located in the fertile crescent. Storied home of Abraham. The oldest full size human statue, "Urfa Man", from 9000 B.C., discovered nearby during an excavation. In its recorded history (from 400 B.C.) it has been conquered by 18 different civilizations, including Mesopotamians, Armenians, Hitites, Romans, Macedonians, and every other group you learned about in history class. It has had many names, including my favorite Justinopolis, no doubt named after the Roman emperor Justinian. And they make a special butter from sheep's milk! URFA!!!
UG	Unger upgrades uggs (Jim Unger upgrades his boots) [upgrades=throws out old object, gets a new one, or builds roads in location] Jim Unger, creator of the comic strip "Herman". 1937 - 2012. British born, moved to Canada. Made enough money from Herman to buy any pair of boots he wanted. Moved to the Bahamas in 1984, retired from cartooning in 1992, but later returned to it. Eventually moved back to Canada (BC).
UH	Usher ushers an usher (Usher brings to the world a son named Usher) [Usher= an usher at a show, wearing a nice suit, holding a flashlight and a program; ushers=precedes, walks in front of, with object on a wheeled cart coming right behind, or acts as an usher in a location] To usher is "to precede as an usher, forerunner, or harbinger". Usher's full name is Usher Raymond IV. One of his children is Usher V. 'Usher: amazing dancing at 2011 Superbowl. Includes jumping down 4 stairs, over another person, and going straight into the splits on landing, then magically rising straight up out of them to a stand.
UI	Uinen uintates a uintathere (Uinen the Maia spreads asphalite throughout the Uinta mountain region for the benefit of the Uinta beast) [uintates=shovels gravel onto] /YOO-ihn-uhn YOO-ihn-tates a yoo-IHN-tuh-theer ( the "ui" of Uinen from LOTR is pronounced like "ruin", and against my better judgment I'm starting the word with a "y" sound)/ {Uinen, Venus-like, holding weeds, near the river Sirion or in misty Hithlum with Fingolfin's people} Asphalite (a.k.a. gilsonite, uintaite, or uintahite) is found in the Uinta Basin, and it has now been found in other places in the world, and has been found on the dwarf planet Ceres, and is predicted on the Martian moon Phobos. It is mined in underground shafts and resembles shiny black obsidian. The Uinta mountains are in northern Utah. They are the only East-West mountain chain in the contiguous 48 states. They are home to a lot of beautiful lakes. The Uintan age, 4.2 million of the sweetest years of the Eocene you've never heard of, are named after them. The uintathere, more often called a uintatherium ("Beast of the Uinta Mountains") is an extinct genus of herbivorous mammal that lived during the Eocene epoch.  It is similar in size and shape to a rhinoceros. (The suffix "-therium" is often used to denote extinct mammals. Example:  Brontotherium "thunder beast")  "Uintatherium  was among the largest animals of its time... Their fossils are the largest and most impressive of the finds at the excavation of Fort Bridger in Wyoming, and were a focal point of the Bone Wars between Othniel Charles Marsh and Edward Drinker Cope. Fossils have been found in both Wyoming and in Utah near the Uinta Mountains... It appeared in the early Eocene 52 million years ago and lived in the region that is now the American Southwest... Its most unusual feature was the skull, which is both large and strongly built, but simultaneously flat and concave: this feature is rare and not regularly characteristic of any other known mammal except in some brontotheres." Tolkien's Uinen is the spouse of Osse. Both are vassals of Ulmo, and neither go in the deep waters where he goes. Uinen is "the Lady of the Seas, whose hair lies spread through all waters under sky. All creatures she loves that live in the salt streams, and all weeds that grow there. She can lay calm upon the waves, restraining the wildness of Ossë." i believe she spends a lot of time up in Hithlum, with Fingolfin's people.
UJ	Upjohn unjams Unjoy (Dr. William Upjohn helps out members of the band "Unjoy" with happy pills) [unjams=gets unstuck from a tight cubbyhole or too-small shelf] <upstate Michigan> {Dr. Will, with sideburns, at his farm retreat, by a lake, holding a friable pill} Dr. Upjohn's big invention was "friable" pills, pills that could be crushed under your finger. His company logo explains that very principle explicitly. "Dr. Will", 1853 - 1932, Kalamazoo, MI, founder of Upjohn Pharmaceuticals, which much later became part of Pfizer. He was voted "Person of the century" by a Kalamazoo organization. He bought a 40-acre summer retreat in Michigan which later became a conference center for his company. Unjoy is "a depressive black metal band" from Finland. Their lyrical themes are depression, self-hate, and suicide. The two guys in it are named E. Morbid and Hopeless. They are a grunge-y band with a lot of instrumental music. Unjoy's albums: "Worthless Life End" and "Tired, Numb, Still Alive" It was hard to find information on the band members, but not as hard to find info on the guy they got the name "Unjoy" from. Kim Carlsson of Hypothermia uses the name for some part of his record label. Kim Carlsson is a Swedish guitarist. He is also an artis and nature lover. He doesn't use paint brushes to paint: only sticks, his fingers, and lengths of his own hair he cuts off for the purpose. He uses his own blood for paint, drawing it out of his veins with a needle. "UJ" is a tough one.
UK	Ukiah ukes a ukulele (Ukiah Pearson plays a ukulele) [ukes=plays a ukulele for] {Ukiah in an office in Marin, CA filled with software developers and graphic designers, with a ukulele strapped to himself, taking a ukulele break} Ukiah Pearson, judging by his facebook and LinkedIn profiles, lives in California, has visited Hawaii, and is a successful graphic designer, a gamer, and avid bicyclist. The ukulele is a Hawaiian instrument developed in the 1880's, based on the Portuguese manchete. There was a ukulele craze around the world in the early 1900's. It eventually reached Japan, and despite its ban during WWII, the ukulele has its biggest following, outside Hawaii, in Japan. Also, the ukulele is huge in Canadian elementary music education as an inexpensive starter instrument.
UL	Ulani ulu's an ulua (Ulani from "Parks and Recreation" cuts an ulua fish with an ulu knife) <Hawaii> Okay. Ulani is a Hawaiian name. The famous Ulani I found is from Parks and Rec. She is Ben Wyatt's father's girlfriend. She is unpleasant to everyone. The actress who plays her has a Laotian background. An ulu is an Inuit knife. They have annual competitions to judge the fastest Inuit woman with an ulu. I watched a youtube video with the four-time winner. She hold the record: 29 seconds to prepare a salmon for hanging up. The ulua, a.k.a. Giant Trevally, is a gigantic, improbable fish found all through the Indian Ocean and South Pacific, including Hawaii. They are as long as a person, but very tall, like a bluegill that got ridiculously big. Not sleek like a shark or other big fish.
UM	Umm umami's an ume (Umm Kulthum dips an apricot in guacamole) [umami's=dips in guacamole, to eat; ume=apricot] /oom koolthoon, OOmee/ <Egypt> The "Japanese Apricot" is a revered tree in Japan, China, Vietnam and other east Asian countries. Its flowers are called plum blossoms and are the subject of many paintings. The annual flowering coincides with changes of season and is celebrated. "Ume" is the Japanese name for the fruit, which is orange (some varieties) and resembles an apricot. Umm Kulthum is a towering figure of the 20th century, though less known in the western world. She was an Egyptian singer whose voice was unparalleled. Her career spanned from the 1920's to the 1970's, with a heyday in the 40's. For forty years she had a monthly radio program that people all across the Arab world listened to, and treated with reverential respect. She brought Arabic verses to the masses through her songs. As a child, she and her father performed at local functions, and he had to pass her off as a boy because of custom. She was a beloved figure in all the Arab speaking world. When she died, 4 million people flooded the streets of Cairo. btw, Eexist 22 Arab states, organized into a league. All have Arabic as an official language , but many have sizable minority populations and languages. Umami: a fifth taste, proposed by a Japanese scientist in 2009. Avocados are said to have a strong umami taste. Savory. Broth. Meaty. Corresponds to actual receptors in the tongue. "It can be described as a pleasant "brothy" or "meaty" taste with a long-lasting, mouthwatering and coating sensation over the tongue. Its effect is to balance taste and round out the overall flavor of a dish. " " Umm Kulthum is considered one of the greatest Arab musicians who ever lived. For over fifty years, she stunned the Arab world with her unmatchable voice; her vocals able to penetrate people’s hearts and express the soul of nations. Her lyrics were written by poets who eagerly offered their pieces to her in hopes of becoming the next esteemed songwriter ordained into Umm Kulthum’s repertoire. Beginning in 1934 and for almost forty years, Umm Kulthum performed monthly concerts in Cairo, Egypt (Danielson, 1). These concerts became the highlight of Arab life, as they were broadcast live on the radio, stretching far beyond the coasts of Egypt. Her renown exploded as households all across the Middle East considered these broadcasts as almost sacred, gathering with loved ones, making memories to the sound of her voice " umm = mother in Arabic 
UN	Uno unnets Uno (Shoma Uno brings the card game Uno out of a mesh bag in preparation for a second career) [unnets=removes from a mesh bag or mesh cage] {Uno on the ice rink, with his phone} Shoma Uno (b. 1997) of Japan is an Olympic medalist in figure skating who also loves gaming. I couldn't find evidence of his playing card games, but he plays darts and ping pong, and there is a pic of him and his younger brother playing a game that looks something like scrabble. And the game Uno CAN be played online, so I bet Uno plays it ALL the time... Uno was the first skater to successfully land a quadruple flip in an international competition. He has a huge fan base of young people. He doesn't like eating vegetables, so sometimes his fans throw heads of lettuce and such on the ice after he's skated, in an effort to get him to eat better. He has a younger brother, a field hockey player, who wrote a book all about their family and his famous older brother. The internet is full of people saying they'd gladly learn to read Japanese just to read this book. Here's an interesting quote from Uno about goals: "Failure is failure only if you look at it like that. Whether anything ends in failure is up to you. If you learn or take away from an experience, it’s not failure. When I was a kid I was always asked what my future goal was and I always said I didn't have one. I was told by adults to say it's the Olympics but it's the only reason I said so back then... But as I got older I asked myself what it is that I really wanted to do. I know the Olympics means the world to a lot of people and this might sound rude, but the Games is not my ultimate goal. I don’t think too much about anything - not even about what I'm going to do tomorrow. Today, this day right here, means everything to me. I don’t really think about the Olympics because I don’t overthink about tomorrow - or the future beyond for that matter. I've always taken it one day at a time and only then did the Olympics become a reality for me."
UO	Uotani uoma's a uomo (Elizabeth Maxwell draws a lipstick bow on a bottle of uomo cologne as its only gift wrapping) [uomo=a bottle of the Italian cologne "uomo"; uoma's=draws onto with lipstick; Uotani=Elizabeth Maxwell] {Elizabeth Maxwell at a big round interview table, with a bottle of cologne in front of her} Uomo means "man" in Italian. Uoma is a company that makes cosmetics including lipstick. Elizabeth Maxwell is a voice actor who has voiced many Anime and video game characters. She has long straight red hair, which is dyed from it's original blonde. In an interview, she discusses her many strengths and one weakness: "I'm terrible at painting and drawing. I remember in high school when we would do art projects, I would do the thing where you snip things out of a magazines and like, paste them into a collage, and like, that was my art, like, here ya go!" And so I imagine her doing a really quick job of presenting a bottle of cologne to a boyfriend, that is, drawing a quick bow onto it with lipstick. One of Maxwell's lesser known Anime characters is Asari Uotani from "Fruits Basket". Maxwell took ballet for 18 years, loves salsa and other dancing. She has wanted, single-mindedly, to be an actor since she was five. She has a typical up-speak California accent, but says her boyfriend's father is from "chee-lay" (the correct pronunciation of Chile) and obviously thinks about language a lot. She would like to play a live action superhero like Balck Widow, and has been taking fencing and fighting lessons as prep. She lives in Austin, TX. She did an interview with Megan (@Menguin) of AfterbuzzTV in LA, and here are some excerpts: "I'd like to say that character, in the future, show some vulnerability AND kick some a$$. ...I'm very type-A... I'm a very idealistic person... Living in Austin, I sometimes has to drive "4 hours" to get to gigs... I'm often cast as a bitch. Whaaat?....You have to take those two dozen no's and keep going...This project will be my first time ORIGINATING an animated character..." She says she USED to have a wikipedia page, but it went away. She is a hard worker, and continues to go to marketing workshops and voice workshops. She writes "Morning pages", which means she writes several pages of journal thoughts each morning, often thoughts about being angry with the state of the world, and it helps her to actually take action. She wears a lot of Vegan leather.
UP	Uppermost unpacks uppers (electronic music artist Uppermost takes pills out of his suitcase while on tour) [uppers=pills; unpacks=pulls out of a suitcase or large box, or gives a history lecture on a location] Uppers is a slang for stimulants, like adderall and cocaine. I watched an interview with "Uppermost" on YouTube, where he and a woman sat on two couches in a basement. "Uppermost", born Behdad Nejatbakhshe, is based in Paris and speaks French. He has shortish dark hair, a slight beard and glasses. It seems like Uppermost relies on music instead of drugs to go deeper, but he DOES have two siblings who are doctors, so he could have access... His name is a reminder to himself of where he wants to go, though he'll never get there (so, it's not a brag). His sister used to make fun of him. His father was a computer engineer, would bring home junky old computers. On one, all you could do was draw, so Uppermost drew a lot. "It's not that I go too far, it's that people don't go far enough." He talks a lot about spending time with himself making music, being inwardly focused. He can't be social and think social thoughts while he's creating music.
	
	
UQ	Unquiet umiaqs an umiaq (the Band "The Unquiet Dead" rows a boat) <England> "Somewhere in the dark woods, bodies lay in swamps carrying secrets and desires unfulfilled. Castaways, slaves, witches, and outcasts, dumped in the murky underbelly of the forests, left to fade from history." I imagine this rock duo paddling a canoe through these swamps. The Unquiet Dead is a "Gothic Industrial Rock" duo, from England. The woman has a powerful voice; the guy plays guitar and dresses in drag. They have a DIY music video where they are in a backyard and a third guy sits in front of a cake, finally putting his face into it. An umiaq is an inuit canoe. They are found from Siberia to Greenland. Up to 30 feet, 15 passengers. No keel, so can carry it over ice easily. Inuits also built small. oversee kayaks. "Although the umiaq was usually propelled by oars (women) or paddles (men), sails—sometimes made from seal intestines—were also used, and in the 20th century, outboard motors. Because the umiaq has no keel, the sails cannot be used for tacking"
UR	Uriah urinates a urinal (Uriah Duffy pees after a show) /you-RYE-uh/ Uriah Duffy b. 1975. Bassist of Whitesnake, has a lot if youtube videos. Picked up the bass at age 8 after seeing Rush's bass player in concert. Father Irish-American, mother Thai. Both he and his brother were named after their parents' favorite rock bands. His brother is named ""Yes Duffy"". (Uriah Heep was an English Rock band formed in 1969). ""Uriah is known for his versatility, with chops ranging from Funk, R&B, Jazz, Hip-Hop, House, Rock, Metal and Gospel."
US	Ursula usurps an unsalted (St. Ursula steals a peanut) [usurps=takes ownership of, illegally] I imagine St. Ursula stealing a peanut from a fellow passenger, while sailing from England to Gaul. Ursula was martyred in 383 A.D. with between 11 and 11,000 virgins. She tried to protect them from arrows with her famous cloak.
UT	Utah utensils a ute (Utah Blaine shoots his gun at a utility vehicle) [utensils=hacks at with a butter knife] {Utah standing near a scaffold, with a gun in a holster} A ute, in Australia, is a sedan with a pickup-truck-like bed on the back. They didn't have utes in the old west, but this is only a couple generations off. Utah Blaine was a character in a Louis L'Amour novel, which was made into the movie "Utah Blaine". In the opening scene, Utah, recently escaped from a Mexican prison, comes across a group trying to hang a man, because he's the owner of some land and their overload and they want his stuff. He breaks up that party, then hatches a plan to save the town from greedy bad guys. No doubt there is gun play involved. He is a hero of the Old West, who saves the west from lawless unionized (maybe) and other thugs. L'Amour grew up in the Fakotas. His father was a large-animal vet. L'Amour was in the merchant marine and visited many places before settling down to a career of writing pulp fiction. He was honored by Ronald Reagan on 1983 in a ceremony.
UU	
UV	Uvee unveils a uvula (Uvee Hayes opens her mouth to sing) [uvula= can be a 3-D model of a uvula; unveils=can picture a shower curtain] {Uvee's parents' mom and pop store cum dance hall, Uvee, with play microphone, watches and smiles and dreams} Uvee Hayes is a singer in Missouri, bridging blues, soul, jazz, and Southern soul. She is from Macon, Mississippi. Her husband Bernie Hayes, a radio and producer and communications icon, created his own record label to produce her. Her parents had a little store when she was a kid, and on Friday and Saturday night they played the blues there and people would come from all over and dance. Uvee was a professional school psychologist for her whole career, recording and performing music on the side. Now that she retired, she's touring full-time. The uvea is the middle, vascular layer of the eyeball (from the Greek uva=grape), just under the white sclera. it is a red-blue wrinkly layer. In the front it morphs into the colorful iris. Uvee HAS a notable uvula, being a singer, but she probably LOOKS at uvulas sometimes too
UW	Unwound unwinds an unwinder (the band "Unwound" unwinds the wire on a bottle of champagne) [unwinder=a martini in a triangular martini glass; unwinds- think of object having long black cord wrapped around it a hundred times, and we're unwinding it and removing it] {Sara Lund of UnWound in a friendly outdoor-stage drum battle with Janet Weiss, holding a drumstick} This '90's Olympia, WA band never smiles in their photos (but Sara Lund smiles in her subsequent solo career). They sound like Nirvana crossed with liz Phair. They need a drink, an "unwinder". Sara Lund, drummer. Justin Trosper, guitar. Vern Rumsey, bass. One of their fan t-shirts said "Unwound 1991 - 2191". They broke on April Fool's Day 2002. Lots of dry bass. Muffled lyrics. DIY ethic. Sara Lund, at the beginning of her drum battle on youtube, says "This is possibly the nerdiest thing I have ever done." :)
UX	Uxie uxorates an uxor (the pokemon character Uxie marries a wife) [uxorates=marries in a traditional ceremony; uxor=Fiona from "Shrek", in her wedding gown] /UHK-see UHK-so-rates an UHK-sore/ {outdoor wedding ceremony, green grass, people all dressed up} ...So... Uxie is a psychic pokemon. non-gendered. He/she levitates, has a turban-like head with a gem reminiscent of an Indian dot on forehead. Is blue, has a weird double tail, each with an eye or something. Neither uxor nor uxorates is a word, but uxor is latin for wife and there are many English words that actually do come from this, including uxorial, uxoricide, and uxorious. Maureen Dowd used the word "Uxorious" to positively describe Bill Clinton's speech about his presidential candidate wife.
UY	Ulysses unyokes a Ulysses (Ulysses symbolically sets free a Ulysses Butterfly upon his return to Ithaca) [unyokes=unties the ropes around (object) ] ...or he gruesomely kills almost every man and woman in his house. But anyway, the Ulysses butterfly is a giant irridescent-blue butterfly in Australia. (It is often used in promotional materials). Interestingly, there is also an insect called the Polyphemus moth, in North America. Both these insects have a wingspan of about 6 inches.
	
	V is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
VA	VaVa valves a vada (Chinese rapper VaVa turns a garden hose on an Indian snack while cleaning up after a release party) [valves=sprays with a garden hose, the kind with the hand-gripper valve at the end] VaVa is a rapper from China. She raps in Mandarin, Sichuan, and English. She had to leave the popular Chinese game show "Happy Camp" when the Chinese government banned actors with tattoos, and hip hop, on TV in 2018. In her song "Let's Go" she opens with the line "Meet VaVa." She has been called China's Rihanna. She chose the English name Vava because it sounds like "doll" in Chinese, as she had a "baby face" when she was little. She released her first album “21” in 2017. One song from the album, "My New Swag" was featured in the 2018 film Crazy Rich Asians. A vada is a deep-fried Indian snack resembling a donut. Immigrants from India to Trinidad brought vada with them, called also bara, and the bara became a popular Trinidadian street food known as a "double" (it has two baras).
VB	Vibert vibrates a vibraphone (Luke Vibert plays a vibraphone) [vibrates=strikes object or location with big mallet and makes it vibrate] /VYE-burt/ Luke Vibert is a recording artist from Cornwall, England. One of his many stage names is "Luke Warm". I watched a youtube video where Vibert thumbed through an enormous collection of LP's on a single tall wall of a record store, in search of a few choice records, and rated them and discussed them as he went. He is soft-spoken, has a graying small beard and moptop dark brown hair. "Vibert's first musical output was in a variety of bands, including a punk act called Five Minute Fashion and later a Beastie Boys-esque group called the Hate Brothers, but he quickly moved into the low-cost environment of solo electronic composition. Vibert grew up in Cornwall and attended the Wesleyan Methodist Truro School [an elite school] along with a number of key members of [his future band] Aphex Twin's Rephlex Records crew." [[ Fun related factoid: A person named Ann maintains a website called "The Vibsite", which contains 944 dense pages listing the descendants of John Vibert and Mary Neell, who were married in Cinnecticut in 1706. (It makes my 576 sentence project look like a walk in the park) ]]
VC	Vic vacuums velcro (Uncle Vic accidentally vacuums up a velcro watch) [velcro=watch with velcro watchband] <New Jersey>
VD	Vedder videos a vedder (Eddie Vedder makes an MTV video with a gun in it) [vedder=holster] Vedder is a Florida-based company that makes concealed-carry holsters. Eddie Vedder of Pearl Jam is an outspoken advocate for gun regulation. In junior high, a fellow student Vedder had had run-ins with fired shots in a classroom, and Vedder heard it from the hallway. Pearl Jam made a video called "Jeremy" about a different real-life gun violence story. Jeremy was a high school student who shot himself in front of his teacher and classmates in 1992. In the video, the boy puts his gun in his mouth just like Jeremy did.
VE	Velveteen veneers velvet (The Velveteen Rabbit wears a thin veneer of velvet, before becoming a real rabbit) [veneers=covers with a thin film, perhaps tin foil; velvet=a velvet Elvis painting] <England> "The Velveteen Rabbit" is a beautiful children's story, by Margery Williams Bianco of England, 1922. A rabbit made of velvet is crafted for a little boy, but the little boy prefers his mechanical toys. The velveteen rabbit hears from an old toy of how sometimes toys can become real through the true love of their owner. The velveteen rabbit is mocked by the other toys, and by real rabbits who see that he can't jump. One day the nurse gives the velveteen rabbit to the child at night in place of a lost toy. The child falls in love with the rabbit. When the boy gets scarlet fever all his toys are burned, and the rabbit ends up in a pile in the backyard. A fairy turns him into a real rabbit and he goes off with the other rabbits. When the boy recovers he recognizes the velveteen rabbit in the woods, and they play together.
VF	Vanford viewfinds a vatful (Elliot "Vanford" Sudal photographs a vat of live bait to put on instagram) [vatful=vat of live bait] {Vanford on the beach, in surf, with bent-double fishing pole} A viewfinder is a screen on a camera that shows the image you're about to photograph. A vat is barrel or bucket for holding liquids. Elliot "Vanford" Sudal (MY nickname for him.. "Sudal" rhymes with "you SHALL") is a catch-tag-and-release shark fisherman and shark ecology advocate, based in Nantucket and Florida. He has a charter service, and posts articles and youtube videos. You can watch him and his team catch 9-foot and 12-foot hammerheads. In one article, he lists Shimano reels as a favorite. Vanford is a popular line of Shimano fishing reels. The Shimano company in Japan is a maker of bicycle gear components and fishing reels. ("Vanford" sounds like "ford van" to me). Elliot on Shimano reels: "My favorite spinning reel is the Shimano Saragossa 20000, which holds close to 500 yards of 65-pound braid and puts out over 40 pounds of drag. I have landed hundreds of sharks up to 8 feet in length with this reel and have yet to be spooled." The explanation I found online for the name Vanford: "Why Vanford then? Where’d Shimano get the name from? Technically, the name stems from Shimano’s JDM model Vanquish. Van-quish – Van-ford. Get it? Let’s give them a break guys. It’s easy to run out of names for thousands of products in your catalog."
VG	Vega vogues a Vega (Alex Vega soups up, and makes popular, a Chevrolet Vega) [vogues=does a photo shoot with object] Alex Vega, owner of The Auto Firm in Miami, is a car designer to the stars. He takes existing cars and remodels and redesigns them into cool creations. My family owned a Chevrolet Vega growing up. They were inexpensive and popular, but not well built and are now the butt of jokes. Probably Alex Vega would never dain to take on a Chevrolet Vega, but if he did it would be fabulous. (I watched a youtube video where he designed a new police car for the Miami Police Department).
VH	Vorch vichies a voucher (Captain Vorch betrays the Ashayans and his promise of help) [vichies=betrays=discards one (object) in favor of another similar, bigger and better (object); voucher=fancy envelope, with swirly fonts and a flat image of a red bow, containing a gift card or free ticket] {Christina De Souza masquerading as Captain Vorch, with a data stick on the bridge of his ship} The comic publisher IDW retold and expanded on a number of Dr. Who episodes first seen on TV. One such episode that got this treatment was "The Eye of Ashaya, where the doctor and Amy and Rory visit the spaceship Excelsis, nominally for a vacation getaway, that turns out to have sinister things going on. The spaceship as a spectacular view of a dying red giant. Turns out it's dying because Captain Vorch has stolen the "heart of Ashaya", a diamond that was formerly at the center of the star, and is using it to power the ship's shields. He has offered the Ashayans, from the endangered planet Ashaya, escape from their planet, but it will come at the price of their being turned into thralls. The recurring character Christina de Souza, with the help of the doctor, steals the diamond and they put it back into the star. (De Souza is played by Michelle Ryan). She is a minor British aristocrat who travels the galaxy stealing stuff for adventure. She flirts with Captain Vorch, lures him to her room, and then zaps him in the face with a neutral pacifier, turning him into a drooling fool. Using his headset, she transforms into an image of Vorch, taking on his appearance and identity, then goes to the bridge, inserts a data stick into a console and steers the ship toward the star in order to return the diamond. Vorch, in fan art, is a strapping 1950's era man with short dark hair and a simple, sharp outfit. Vichy is a spa town in france, and was the seat of the unpopular nazi-friendly government of france during WWII.
VI	Vi vises a violin (Violet Gordon-Woodhouse chooses the harpsichord as her primary instrument) [vises=grips with vice grips or pliars, or puts into a table-top vise] {Violet in a fancy drawing room with a harpsichord, with a metronome} The idea here is that a harpsichord is just a violin in a vise, that is, a violin that has been put into a frame, and then elaborated upon. (Unfortunately for this metaphor, the violin is a historically younger instrument than the harpsichord, ~1500 vs. ~1400, but the construction metaphor stands). Violet Gordon-Woodhouse (1872 - 1948), born to an aristocratic family, was an English harpsichord player, and the first person to make a recording of the harpsichord, in 1920. She was the 4th of 7 children. She was recognized as a musical prodigy as a child, and took lessons from the eminent keyboard teacher Oscar Beringer. She performed publicly for a short period in the 1920's when money was tight, but mostly performed for smaller private functions, and kept up a rigorous practice schedule all her life. Today, she is most famous for having lived with four husbands, an arrangement that lasted for the entire lifetimes of the five people involved, until they died one by one. Early in life, she broke off an engagement to the wealthy Viscount Gage (related to the American Schuyler family?), apparently after having had the Birds and the Bees explained to her by her mother. Exploring more non-traditional options, she entered into a "marriage blanc" (a marriage with no expectation of sex) with Gordon Woodhouse (he changed his last name to Gordon-Woodhouse, and she took that name as well-- yeah, I know it's weird) and moved into his estate. Later, William Barrington (heir to a viscountcy) joined them, and apparently she did have a romantic relationship with him, and then later two other men joined the household, Max Labouchere and Dennis Tollemache. All the men had aristocratic backgrounds. There is plenty of speculation about the various relationships between the five people, but apparently no evidence beyond what I have stated here. The household was known as the "Woodhouse circus" in the social scene of the day. Gordon-Woodhouse was friends with, and became a hero to, many people seeking a non-traditional path.
VJ	Vijay V.J.'s verjus (Vijay Pande does a video promo for verjus) [veejays: the person is showing the object on a screen at a part, AND the object is also there in person. it's like an homage, with the object there] /vehr-ZHOO/ Verjus, green juice, is the result of taking grapes that are still sour, not yet sweet and ripe, and making a drink from them. Vijay Pande was born in Trinidad, of two parents from India. He went to Princeton, and teaches at Stanford. He is an entrepreneur, whose "Folding@Home" genome product uses people's computers as one one big supercomputer to learn about the human genome, I think. If he ever went into beverage sales, he would be very good at it.
VK	Vack vodkas a volk (Peter Vack spreads vodka gummi worms inside a Volkswagen) [vodkas=throws clear vodka at, from a shot glass; volk=Volkswagen Bug] <Manhattan> Peter Vack (born Peter Brown) is a hottie (long straight black hair, gaunt face), actor, and director. He has been in many TV shows and movies. His father is a movie producer and writer in New York City. After Vack played a role in the series "Mozart in the Jungle", he used the money to write and produce an indie film (with his sister in a starring role) behind his agent's back. The film has a gross name and gross theme, and a gross ending. According to one reviewer, the film "provides the same amount of 'fun' as either constipation or diarrhea." In episode 7 of "I Just Want My Pants Back", Peter Vack's character gets drunk on vodka worms at a party. It's not too much of a stretch to imagine him losing a few worms in the car on the way home... Vack: "One of the things that I think is most surprising when shooting a movie is seeing what’s working and what actually needs to be totally revised—and then having the courage to actually revise it"
VL	Val veils a vole (Ms. Frizzle causes nighttime and sleepiness to come when children are read her story) [veils=covers with a thin transparent mesh cloth; vole=field mouse] {Valerie Frizzle, with safety goggles, in a classroom full of beakers, test tubes, and chemistry equipment} Ms. Frizzle, whose first name is Valerie, is the central character of "The Magic School Bus". Voles are active at night, and veiling a vole is what happens when the veil of Night is drawn over the Earth. (I think of the Greek goddess in Fantasia who veils the world after the sun goes down). In other words, when children are read "The Magic School Bus" as a bedtime story, night comes. A vole looks like a large mouse. Sometimes they are called "field mice" . They are hard on crops and gardens, can eat a lot of stuff with no warming. A pair of voles can produce 100 children in one year.
VM	Velma vomits a varmint (Velma from "Scooby Doo" eats bush meat during a mystery investigation, then throws it up) [varmint=ground hog; vomits=eats a piece of object, then throws up ON the object]
VN	Venn vins a van (John Venn puts an identification number on a van) [van=my blue van; vins=from house arrest, makes Vehicle Identification Number to put on (object) ] John Venn was an English mathematician, 1834 - 1923. He did indeed publish Venn diagrams, though Euler preceded him. He also furthered Boole's work in logic. He reminds me of my English family history. His brother and father were named Henry. His father and grandfather were deeply religious and were involved in missions in Africa. John himself became an Anglican priest, but resigned his position in 1883, "having concluded that Anglicanism was incompatible with his philosophical beliefs". He built a mechanical cricket bowler (like a baseball pitching machine) that out-bowled real bowlers. He became a college president in 1903.
VO	Voortman voodoos a voodoo (Harry Voortman puts an evil spell on a competing voodoo donut) [voodoo=donut; voodoos=places a spell on, or makes a voodoo doll out of]. Dutch brothers Harry and William Voortman started Voortman Cookies in 1951 in Hamilton, Ontario. William retired around 1985, Harry kept going until 2015, age 82, then sold the business but only to someone who would stay in Hamilton, and every employee got a nice big parting check. It sounds like the two brothers were really fantastic bosses and people. Their father was a baker in Holland. Harry quit school in sixth grade.
VP	Viper vaporizes a viper (Scottish wrestler Viper destroys an adder) One thing about Scotland is that it basically only has one kind of snake, the diminutive but venomous adder. The adder is also Scotland's only poisonous reptile, so if a professional wrestler were going to go up against a reptile, that would be the one. Viper's real name is Kimberly Benson. She is very big, and likes to hit and wrestle. She used to wrestle with her dad. She doesn't like to be told what who to be. She started her career wearing black, because it was expected, but now also wears blue, pink, wears make-up, whatever she wants. She enjoys the choreographed violence in the ring. It's about trust, and beating on each other. One she and her opponent both ended up in the hospital, and the staff didn't want to put them near each other because they thought there had been a street fight, but the staff relented when they figured these were friends and professional wrestlers. She enjoys traveling with her wrestler friends and going to events (and, y'know, beating on each other). Wow, that is not a life I understand!
	
	
VQ	Vazquez vanquishes visqueen (Francisco Vazquez tells visqueen who's boss) Columbus found the Caribbean in 1492. Just 48 years later, the same number of years since I was born, Francisco Vazquez (born in Spain) led a well-armed expedition north out of Mexico city with 300 Europeans and 1000 Native Americans, to find the rumored "7 cities of gold". They found angry Native Americans including Pueblos, became the first Europeans ever to see the Grand Canyon, and got as far as modern day Kansas, before returning home in disgrace. Vazquez was removed from his position as governor and led a quiet final 10 years on a city council. Oh, the visqueen. Visqueen is every camper and explorer's friend. It is a thin layer of plastic which keeps the rain out.
VR	Veronica variegates a virus (Veronica Palmer paints a virus in striped colors) [virus: can picture a test tube containing the virus] Veronica is an executive in the TV show "Better Off Ted" played by Portia de Rossi (who is married to Ellen DeGeneres). Veronica's company is called "Veridian Dynamics", and they create weird biochemical weapons and other tech, so a variegated virus isn't out of the question. "variegated: exhibiting different colors, especially as irregular patches or streaks."
VS	Vassar vessels vaseline (Matthew Vassar uses his fleet of boats to transport and sell vaseline along with beer, on the Hudson River in Poughkeepsie) <Poughkeepsie, New York> Vaseline was developed in nearby Brooklyn, in the 1860's, by fellow entrepreneur (and chemist) Robert Chesebrough. I don't know if Vassar and Chesebrough ever met, but it's not inconceivable that they had SOME relationship. I fancifully imagine that Vassar partnered with Chesebrough and shipped his product. Anyway: Matthew Vassar, founder of Vassar College (a women's college, until 1969) in Poughkeepsie, was English born. His portrait looks like my Uncle Henry. His family moved to the U.S. in 1796 or so. He took part on the War of 1812 as a sergeant, but saw little action. As a youth, he fled his home the day before he was to be apprenticed to a Tanner. Eventually he came back and joined the family brewing business. When he was 18, his older brother was killed in the aftermath of an explosion at the brewery, which devastated their father. Matthew took over the business, and his influence and wealth grew from there. He donated half of his fortune, $400,000, to found Vassar college. His brewery business had a number of boats, so no doubt he did some boating. He took his two nephews, the ones whose father had died, into the business, and guided them to successful livelihoods.
VT	Vito vetoes a vitamin (guitarist Vito Bratta rejects a treatment plan for his injured wrist) [vetoes=does not allow to join (in an activity)] <Staten Island, New York City> Vito Bratta and Mike Tramp were in the band "White Lion", active 1983 - 1992. Vito is a legendary guitarist, who frequently makes the lists of top guitar players of all time. His style is beautiful and melodic on songs like "Wait" and "Little Fighter", with surprising and moving harmonies. He was the band's main songwriter. In the early 2000's, Mike Tramp tried to get the band back together. Vito declined. He later gave some reasons for disappearing from the rock scene, including having to take care of an ill father for 5 years, and a wrist injury that has left it painful to play electric guitar, though he can still play acoustic. Quote from Mike Tramp, who moved from Denmark to NYC to pursue his music career: “I was the engine that made Vito move. Vito lived with his parents on Staten Island, and he never lifted a finger to make any money. If he drove to my place in Queens, I’d have to give him $10 for gas.” A vita, or "curriculum vitae" (C.V.), is like a resume but longer. Used by academica, it grows as you get older and have more experiences.
VU	Vu vulcanizes a vuvuzela (Tommy Vu heats and strengthens a horn, so he can make more noise) [vulcanizes=heats] Tommy Vu is a Vietnamese American. He is a poker player and real estate person. He was known in the 1980's for infomercials on his real estate seminars. They featured images of the good life, including women in bikinis on yachts. Vulcan is the Roman Hephaestus, the blacksmith who makes things. Vulcanized rubber is made stronger by extreme heat and sulfur. The rubber is hardened, or cured. Polymers in it get cross linked to other polymers. The process was discovered by Charles Goodyear in 1839. Car tires are vulcanized. A vuvuzela is a short, straight horn, invented late in the 1900's, that is used by soccer games to make a lot of noise and do damage to nearby people's eardrums.
VV	
VW	Vawer vows a vowel (Michelle Vawer promises a refrigerator magnet letter to her beau) [vows=promises to give; vowel=refrigerator magnet vowel] /vow-er, like one who vows/ Michelle Vawer is a swimsuit model, discovered in Hawaii. She says she likes guys who have something going on, like an artistic hobby or something interesting. I picture her saying "We can get married, and as a symbol of maintaining an interesting and intelligent life together, I give you this set of refrigerator magnets". Fun fact: Vawer is an open-water swimmer. "Vawer crossed the Auau Channel in 5 hours 30 minutes in 2005 as the 142nd swimmer to achieve this crossing from the islands of Lanai to Maui"
VX	Vixen voxes a VAX (the 80's band Vixen, including lead singer Janet Gardner, sings about a computer) [Voxes=praises or warns by name, stands next to the object and calls out "Hey everyone, it's a (object)!", or "Oh no, it's a (object)!"; VAX=old desktop computer] /voxes is "vahkses", vax rhymes with "tax"/ Yup, they actually have a song called "Computer Madness". Their lead singer and rhythm guitar player was, and still is, Janet Gardner. Fun fact: in 2004, while taking a break from Vixen, she studied to be a dental hygienist. (Thought question: Have you ever noticed how a lot of '80's bands have the same desperate trying-to-be-hip sound as a middle-aged men's band?) vox=voice in latin, and is now short for 'vocals'. Invoke, evoke, voice, vowel are some of the many words descended from "vox". Vixen was a hard-rockin' 80's band, all women, from St. Paul, Minnesota. "Vixen literally refers to a female fox, but it has two very distinctive extended meanings: 'a shrew' and 'a sexy woman.' How is it that the word took such semantically divergent paths? "
VY	Veyron voyages vinyl (Pierre Veyron drives a fiberglass-body car) [voyages=brings along on a voyage, in a ship; vinyl=a vinyl LP record] /VAY-rahn, or just VAY-run/ To remember "veyron", think: Very Veyron. The Bugatti Veyron is the fastest street-legal production car in the world, at about 260 mph. It has 1001 HP (the last 750 HP is to get it from 160 mph to 260 mph!) it has TEN radiators instead of the usual ONE. Pierre Veyron, 1903 - 1970, was a French engineer and racecar driver who helped Bugatti cars in both those ways in the 1930's and 40's. During the German occupation, he joined the French Resistance. Two of his fellow drivers also joined, and were caught and killed in concentration camps. He won a medal after the war for his work. Bugatti named its fast car after him. Vinyl is the third-most produced plastic, in the manufacturing world. #1 is polyester (fiber for fabric), #2 is polyethylene (containers and plastic bags), #3 vinyl (siding, flooring, PVC pipes). Fiberglass uses glass fibers embedded in plastic. The first fiberglass boat was built in 1942. Fiberglass car bodies got their start in the 1950's.
	
	W is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
WA	Wanamaker wants a Wanamaker (John Wanamaker wants the Wanamaker organ) [wants=wants for his birthday- can picture cake, and person is wearing birthday hat; wanamaker can be an organ of any size, even a little Hammond organ] Wanamaker was an American merchant in 1800's Philadelphia, and became the U.S. Postmaster. He is credited with the phrase "Half the money I spend on advertising is wasted; the trouble is I don't know which half." The Wanamaker Organ, in the 7-story Macy's (formerly Wanamaker's) in Philadelphia, is the largest organ on the world. John Wanamaker had French roots, and his successful sons continued a relationship with France and creating market chic French products in the U.S. Wanamaker was active in the early YMCA. The organ was built in 1904, and had several homes including Kansas City. Its production bankrupted several companies and people. in 1909 John Wanamaker bought it and had it shipped to Philadelphia in 13 freight cars. He created an organ factory in the attic of the store in order to enlarge the organ and make it adequate for the space.
WB	Webbie wobbles a web (Webbie wobbles a web in his inexperience) [wobbles=gets on top of object and causes it to wobble] <New York City> Webbie is an inexperienced, would-be sidekick to Spiderman in the Marvel Universe. He grows up to be the "Steel Spider", wearing a black outfit with a spider design on the front, and having 4 spider legs of steel. "Oliver 'Ollie' Osnick is a very intelligent kid of Boston, Massachusetts, who is a huge fan of Spider-Man and super-hero stuff. At some point, he was able to convince the Mayor to call Spider-Man to become Boston's official vigilante, building for him a lair, gadgets and vehicles. He intended to become his loyal side-kick, Webbie, but Spider-Man denied him this, fearing for Ollie to be in danger, because of his lack of powers."
WC	Wilco welcomes a wiccan (the band Wilco welcomes a wiccan to hang out with them) [wiccan: think the Wicked Witch of the West (Oz) ] Wilco, alt rock band from Chicago. 1994 - present. They named themselves after the military/aviation radio response "Wilco" meaning "Will comply". Their main guy is Jeff Tweedy (looks a bit like Jack Black), who seems to be a very opinionated guy, based on all the stories of conflict between band members you read about. In 1997 they collaborated with musician Billy Bragg on a number of previously unknown songs written by Woodie Guthrie in his later years, with politically charged lyrics. Nora Guthrie, Woody's daughter, said that Bragg was "the only singer I knew taking on the same issues as Woody." Wilco objected to the overwrought mixing that Bragg applied to the album, but it was a big success critically. In 2001 they made waves with their album "Yankee Hotel Foxtrot". In a weird series of events, their record label Reprise rejected it, then released the band from contract and gave them the rights to the album. Wilco released the album free on its website, and it was a smash hit. Wilco has a trippy claymation music video for their song "Someone to lose", with a weird bird, a worm, an abducted bride, and wedding party of wedding-cake miniatures. I'm sure they would welcome a wiccan. Wicca in its modern form got started by Gerald Brousseau Gardner in 1954 in England. He formed a coven. Big wicca topics, The goddess, nature worship, witchcraft.
WD	Wade welds waders (Wade Boggs fabricates metal buttons for his fishing waders) [welds=joins with a welding arc, or at least blasts with a welding arc regardless of the effect] {Wade Boggs at the plate with a bat, having drawn his usual Chai symbol in the sand with the bat} To weld can mean "to unite or reunite closely or intimately, eg. architecture that welds the past and the present" Welders wear a welder's helmet or "hood". Waders are rubber chest-high pants that fishermen wear. Wade Boggs played pro baseball for 18 years, most famously for the Boston Red Sox in the '80's. He was featured as himself in an episode of the TV show "Cheers." He was one of the great hitters, and was especially known for his control of the ball, rarely popping up. One interviewer reported: "Boggs told me that in his eighth year in the league, he hit a foul fly ball deep into the stands down the right-field line. 'I looked at the umpire,' Boggs said. 'He looked at me, shrugged his shoulders and said, "What?" I told him that was the first time in my career that I had ever done that.' " Boggs claimed he could drink 50-60 beers on a flight across the country. Fun fact: both his parents were pilots in WWII. He is an avid hunter and fisherman, and in 2013 he caught a world-record 87 cm bluefish off the coast of New Jersey.
WE	Weederman weewees a weed (the Mr. Boffo dog, Weederman, pees on a weed) Mr. Boffo, "People unclear on the concept ", "A time to worry". I have the book "People unclear on the concept", where the guy is trying to waterski behind Noah's Ark. Weederman is in the water with him.
WF	Warf wiffles a waffle (Star Trek TNG's Warf, who is chief of security, hits a suspicious waffle with a wiffle bat, in the cafeteria) Regarding wiffle ball: "The ball most commonly used in the game was invented by David N. Mullany at his home in Fairfield, Connecticut in 1953 when he designed a ball that curved easily for his 12-year-old son. It was named when his son and his friends would refer to a strikeout as a "whiff". The Wiffle Ball is about the same size as a regulation baseball, but is hollow, lightweight, of resilient plastic, and no more than 1/8 inch (3 mm) thick. One half is perforated with eight .75-inch (19 mm) oblong holes; the other half is non-perforated. This construction allows pitchers to throw a tremendous variety of curveballs and risers." And, incidentally, a famous Warf comment: When viewing an organic space life form/spaceship, he observed with alarm: "It is changing color."
WG	Wolfgang wiggles a wig (Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart adjusts his wig)
WH	Walsh washes a washer (Bill Walsh cleans off a washing machine) I imagine SF 49er's coach Bill Walsh taking a hands-on approach, and cleaning the equipment used to wash players' jerseys.
WI	Winifred wings a widget (Winifred Banks grazes a piece of police equipment with a snowball during a suffragette demonstration) [wings=grazes and damages with a snowball or rock; widget=yellow oven-cleaning razor blade] {Winifred Banks by the staircase, singing, with a "Votes for Women" sash} The Gillette company used to make a product called the Widget, a yellow-plastic-encased razor blade for scraping stuff. To wing is "to strike or wound in a wing or an appendage. Winged me with a snowball. " Winifred Banks, a.k.a. Mrs. Banks, is the wife and mother in the Mary Poppins story. In the 1964 movie she is a suffragette. From her song, Sister Suffragette: "No more, the meek and mild subservients, we. We're fighting for our rights- militantLY!" ...and, of course "Though we adore men individually/ We agree that as a group they're ra-ther stu-pid! "
WJ	Wojak wejars a woju (Wojak the "Feels guy" smuggles Chinese lettuce) [wejars=puts into an airtight jar, or smuggles something into a location] {Wojak, on or "within" a computer screen, holding Furie's creation Pepe the Frog} A wejar is an airtight jar marketed to people who want smells contained within a jar. Woju is a vegetable, usually called "celtuce" for "celery-lettuce", also called Chinese lettuce. It is popular in China and Taiwan, and arrived there from the Mediterranean around 800 A.D. It is lettuce, but has a long, thick stem reminiscent of celery, and the leafy part is also long, not bushy. Wojak, a.k.a. the "Feels guy", is a meme or reaction image (similar to an emoticon) introduced in 2010. He is a simple line-drawing of a bald, sad-looking man. His name and origin are Polish, but it is easy to imagine the name sticking here because it sounds like "woe-jack". Wojak has appeared with Pepe the frog, and "NPC Wojak" (non-player character Wojak) has been used to ridicule lefties and their supposed herd mentality. Sometimes Wojak is depicted hugging another Wojak. He has been re-purposed for many things.
WK	Wonka whacks wicker (Willy Wonka whacks a wicker chair with his cane) Willy Wonka loses his temper in the movie and tells Charlie to leave. ("I said 'good day', sir!!") He doesn't whack a wicker chair, but he could have.
WL	Will walls a well (William Barlow, pioneer in Oregon, builds a well) [well=inkwell, a great square and curvy shape; walls=builds a stone wall around] {William Barlow in front of the Barlow House in Oregon, near a well, with a bowtie} 1822 - 1904. Married Rachel, who died a month later. Re-married. "Sometime after 1848, Barlow purchased a 640-acre [sim. to Yule Kilcher's land] land claim from his father Sam Barlow for $6,000. In 1891, he founded the town of Barlow on that land. His residence, now known as the Barlow House, still stands near Barlow." The Barlow house is white, with two stories and two chimneys. The entrance is lined with trees on either side, like Oak Alley in New Orleans but more modest.
WM	Wham! whams a woman (British pop duo bowls over teenage girls) [woman: think Princess Leia action figure] George Michael and Andrew Ridgeley. Their ancestry is 3/4 Greek/Italian/Egyptian. (Ridgeley's mom is Scottish). Before popularity, they played together in The Executives with Ridgeley's brother. The two were school chums. Andrew was a drunken partier, and had surgery to make his nose smaller. They famously dis a 10-day tour of China. They made 4 albums, then broke up. Ridgeley co-wrote "Careless Whisper", but not many others. Their name, "Wham!", succeeded in perfectly summing up their sound, style, and impact.
WN	Weiner wins a wiener (Lee Weiner wins nothing more than a wiener, when he wanted to win a revolution) [wins=object has a thick yellow ribbon and bow around it, as if won in a showy contest] /WYE-ner/ Lee Weiner is my new favorite person. Every quote from his direct and to the point. He was one the Chicago 7, tried for "Conspiracy to Riot" after the riots surrounding the Democratic National Convention. At age 81, Weiner still wants a revolution, to end capitalism, but it hasn't happened yet. He was born into a Jewish family in Chicago. He had long hair and a long beard and looked like a freaky, scary hippie when young. He reminds me of Chong from "Cheech and Chong". Right after the trial, in jails, the guards cut off the long hair of many of the defendants, and spread around pictures of them with short hair. The other defendants included Abbie Hoffman and Jerry Rubin. Weiner got a job teaching at Rutgers, but was let go after he made controversial political statements at a party. He spent his life being an activist. Weiner quotes: "People always pronounce [my name] Wee-ner. It's Wye-ner. When the judge would say Wee-ner, I would shout out, "It's Wye-ner," and he got pissed off and charged me with contempt, which was a perfect summary of my political stance." " On Aug[ust] 28, during the huge battle on Michigan Avenue with the National Guard, I separated myself from the crowd to stand on the steps of the Art Institute and watch the crowd of people. It was the only time in my life I thought a revolution might happen in the United States." Interviewer: " [The undercover officer] heard you explain how to build a Molotov cocktail. How serious were you?" Weiner: "Very serious. The mayor and police thought the Chicago streets were theirs. I thought they were the people’s streets, and that people might get an opportunity at some joint ownership." Interviewer: "Describe what you looked like in 1969." Weiner: "Like a maniac! If I was in an elevator and the doors opened, and you decided this was not the elevator to take, I would have understood. My hair was long, my beard was long. "
WO	Woo whoopsies a woo-woo (Woo Jang-chen knocks over his woo woo cocktail) [whoopsies=knocks over while drunk, either with arm or by bumping into with body] Woo Jang-choon was a Korean-Japanese botanist who achieved international scientific fame for engineering a double-flowered petunia. His Korean father, having been involved in the assassination of a Queen in Korea, fled to Japan and married a Japanese woman. Woo was discriminated against as a Korean, but still became a successful botanist. After WWII, the Japanese government refused to let him move to Korea, so he turned himself in to a Japanese ministry involved in rooting out people of Korean descent, and somehow got himself kicked out of Japan! He became a Korean hero. For the next 15 years, until his death, he led Korea's work in getting seeds and crops going in his struggling country, including during the Korean war. While growing up in Japan, his mother famously encouraged him to drink alcohol in order to propel his professional career. A Woo Woo is made of vodka, peach schnapps, and cranberry juice.
WP	Whop whips a whippet (Indiana U. wide receiver "Whop" Philyor outruns a whippet) [whips with a whip] <Indiana> Whop got his name for his love ot Burger King whoppers. He is currently a junior at IU, and has a good chance of getting into the NFL. "When Whop walks into the room — it doesn’t matter how bright it is already in there or how dark it is — it brightens up immediately. Some people, their personality just bleeds out of their uniforms. Whop plays football with this unbridled joy.” A whippet is a midsize hound descended from the Greyhound. It is the fastest dog in its size class. and possibly the fastest accelerating dog period. There are various paintings of noblemen with whippets over the centuries proving that they've been used in hunting for a couple hundred years.
	
	
WQ	Waqar waterquakes a waqf (Waqar Younis, who is known for living dangerously, makes a waterquake in his bathtub, endangering a pile of money floating on a little raft) [waqf=pile of money; waterquakes= makes a bathtub waterquake with a toy model of the object, or makes a bathtub waterquake while visiting a location] <Pakistan> A waqf is "an endowment made by a Muslim to a religious, educational, or charitable cause" Waqar Younis is the coach of the Pakistani cricket team, as well as a cricket commentator. He is known as one of the best bowlers of all time, from when he played the game. He played with Pakistani and English teams, I believe. During a world finals match, he was ejected from the game for throwing a beamer at the hitter, which is a non-bouncing ball aimed at the hitter. ... Yeah, WQ is about as bad as it gets!
WR	Warren wires a warrant (Earl Warren serves a warrant as district attorney of Alameda County, CA in the 1920's) [wires=hangs decorative seasonal lights on, or makes electric, with lights or motion; warrant=an arrest warrant for the person --subject-- ] Earl Warren (1891 - 1974) was the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court whose "Warren Court" issued landmark civil rights rulings in the 50's and 60's (think "Brown vs. Board of Education" and striking down laws against interracial marriage) and helped end McCarthyism. He had attended law school at UC Berkeley, then served as a District Attorney, then Attorney General of CA, then served as (republican) Governor of California (and the chair of the California Republican Party). After unsuccessful bids for vice president and president in 1948 and 1952, he was appointed to the Supreme Court by Dwight Eisenhower. Warren's father and mother were born in Norway and Sweden respectively, and had been married in Minneapolis before moving to California. (Thank God for solid Lutherans in American politics!) Warren did not receive a middle name; his father later commented that "when you were born I was too poor to give you a middle name." Warren opposed FDR's New Deal. He strictly enforced prohibition. He supported the internment of Japanese Americans during WWII. He opposed, and litigated against, corruption and graft in California. He seems to have been a prime example of one of those old fashioned, thinking Republicans you hear about from the old days.
WS	Wes wassails a weasel (Wesley Crusher drinks to the shapeshifter Salia) In the Star Trek TNG episode "The Dauphin", Wes shares a romance and a kiss with a passenger, Salia, who is en route to take over leadership of her home planet. It turns out both Salia and her caretaker Anya are shapeshifters, shifting into silly-looking large furry ape-like monsters. Anya overpowers Warf in her monster form. Later when she comes after Wesley, Salia turns into a more gentle kind of monster (the "weasel" in this sentence) and makes Anya stop.
WT	Watt wets water (James Watt builds a steam condenser) [wets=pours water on; water=a glass pitcher of water] James Watt, Scottish then lived in England, 1700's. Had a knack for the classics and maths, and became a builder of musical instruments then mathematical instruments such as compasses. He saw a flaw in steam engine design, and created his first and greatest invention, the separate-condenser steam engine. The steam condenses on a separate but attached chamber, and this saves a loss of heat in the main compartment (or something like that)
WU	Wust wu_tangs a wuzzle (Lilly Wust dances with women of multivariate identity) [wuzzle=Bumblelion, a lion with bee colorings on his abdomen] <Germany> The Wu-Tang (from the Wu-Tang Clan) is a hip-hop dance done largely with the arms. It's kind of a swinging-a-hammer motion, and your arms make a "W" pattern. You know all those movies about someone who doesn't fit the mold? That's what the 1980's Wuzzles TV show was about. Each character was a combination of two animals, and the objects on their island of Wuz were similarly comprised of two things. So, Hoppopatamus and Bumblelion live in a castle scraper and use a telephonograph. Lilly Wust was a German woman (married to an accountant/soldier) who had a beautiful tragic love affair with a Jewish woman, Felice Schragenheim, who was arrested and died in the holocaust. A movie called "Aimee and Jaguar" was made about it. Wust later helped three other women hide. Wust didn't originally know Felice was Jewish, or that she herself was a lesbian. It's all a tangled, beautiful tragic story of mixed up identities.
WV	Waverly weaves a wivern (Waverly Jong weaves a story about a dragon) [weaves=makes, using any textile and technique, a small replica of the object while a real one sits nearby as a model] {Waverly sits opposite her opponent at a chess match, with a chess piece queen} Waverly Jong is a character in The Joy Luck Club, by Amy Tan, a story of four Bay Area mothers who gather weekly to play mahjong, and four daughters. The mothers all knew hardships in their native China, and sacrificed for their children. The daughters struggle to be themselves as Americans while being daughters of parents from another land. Waverly Jong, a daughter, is a chess master and has a big ego. I imagine her telling a long story about a wave, and an ocean journey bringing her mom to America. A wivern (also spelled wyvern) is a dragon used in heraldry and as a school mascot. They typically have only 2 feet (not 4), are not fire-breathing, and have a diamond- or arrow-shaped tail.
WW	
WX	Waxman waxes a waxwing (House rep. Henry Waxman puts a coat of wax on a model/statue of a cedar waxwing). Waxman (bald with moustache) was a long-term liberal from CA in the House of Representatives. He led fights against tobacco and for clean air. He published a long searchable list of misleading intelligence reporting that had led to the Iraq war. He came in with a large group of Democratic freshmen in 1975. He was very powerful before 1995, when Republicans gained control of the House. He is Jewish, and talks about that part of his identity sometimes. I don't know if he is an animal lover, but I picture him with a model of a cedar waxwing in his home, lovingly giving it a fresh coat of wax now and then. There are three types of wax wings. They have a red tip on their wings, reminiscent of ceiling wax. 
WY	Wyatt wyes whey (Wyatt Earp separates milk into cheese and whey using a Y-shaped pipe fixture, in the Old West) [wyes=throws a metal wye plumbing fixture at something, or stuffs something into the fixture] {Wyatt Earp, holding a wye full of whey, taking cover behind a rain barrel or other structure at the OK corral during a gunfight} Whey is a cloudy, yellowish liquid, packed with nutrients. More at end. Wyatt Earp lived all over the place. His family was in CA and Arizona, Missouri... At one point he lingered in Wyoming while the rest of his family continued their train journey back to Iowa or somewhere. Earp was a gambler, a brothel owner, a real estate dealer, and a lawman. He was involved in the famous shootout at the O.K. corral (in Tombstone, AZ) in which three outlaws were killed by Earp, two of his brothers, and Doc Holliday. Some outlaws from the same gang later maimed one, and killed another, of Earp's group. Earp lived a colorful life, and ended up in CA where he met enough of the right people to get himself immortalized in a book, then in movies. A wye is a pipe fixture used by plumbers, shaped like a lowercase-y. A wye is also a Y-shaped train track that takes up less space than a balloon loop, which is the other way to turn a train around. All about whey: Cows' milk has something like 70% casein proteins (KAY-seen, means cheese proteins) and 30% whey protein, whereas human milk is the reverse, 70% whey and 30% casein. To make cheese, rennin (the natural animal-derived enzyme) or rennet(artificial) is added to milk, curdling it. After some heating and processing, the whey (a liquid) is drained off. (Fun fact: feta is made from sheep's milk, and artisanal mozzarella is often made from Buffalo's milk). The whey is a cloudy, yellowish liquid. It is packed with nutrients, and so instead of tossing it out, many people like to add it to other recipes. The most common use is to put into bread and other recipes in place of water.
	
	X/Z is Done. Letter clarity. No Flea 2nd consonant. Good objects and verbs. Parentheses format.
XA	Zsa_Zsa zaza's za (Zsa Zsa Gabor puts zaza weed on pizza) [zaza's=gives ZaZa to, or puts ZaZa inside of; za=pizza-- Think: "Will it pizza?" (Rhett and Link) ] Zaza is a strain of marijuana, more at end. Zsa Zsa Gabor: raised, inquisitive eyebrows, dolled up blonde hair, the front swaths often split into two curls around a point in the center, above her nose. Zsa Zsa Gabor was named Miss Hungary in 1936. She emigrated to the U.S. in 1941. She is glamorous and gorgeous, of course. She has two sisters who were also actors: Eva Gabor and Magda Gabor. They are Jewish, which probably explains why they left Hungary in 1941. They were socialites and actors. Between the three sisters, they were married 20 ( twenty) times!! ( Zsa Zsa- 9 times). And between the three sisters, they only had ONE child! (Zsa Zsa's). About zaza: "Exotic ZaZa is an indica/sativa variety from South Bay Genetics and can be cultivated indoors (where the plants will need a flowering time of ±65 days). South Bay Genetics' Exotic ZaZa is a THC dominant variety and is/was never available as feminized seeds."
XB	Zamboni zambonies a zamboni (Frank Zamboni drives a zamboni) [zamboni's=takes for a zamboni ride] Frank Zamboni was an American inventor, born in Eureka, Utah. He and his brothers had an ice factory (run with coal or oil I think), and, when electric fridges came along, they gave that up and created an ice rink with their leftover equipment. "The initial machine included a hydraulic cylinder from an A-20 attack plane, a chassis from an oil derrick, a Jeep engine, a wooden bin to catch the shavings, and a series of pulleys.  His son, Richard, said, "It took him nine years. One of the reasons he stuck with it was that everyone told him he was crazy."
XC	Zucchino zincifies a zucchini (David Zucchino galvanizes a zucchini, in the public imagination) [zincifies=coats or impregnates with zinc, i.e. galvanizes] Galvanizing prevents rust partly because zinc corrodes before the steel it covers and protects does. David Zucchino (bald, big gray moustache, usually smiling somewhat wryly), an investigative reporter, wrote about a 2014 coal ash spill that contaminated water, putting metals including zinc in the water, and perhaps coating fish and plants and crops alike with zinc. David Zucchino is a Pulitzer prize winning journalist, who has reported from dozens of countries. One of his books, "The Wilmington Lie", describes the ~1893 coup in Wilmington, South Carolina where the mixed black-white government of the state's largest city was overthrown by a large group of armed white supremacists, and about 60 black people were killed.
XD	Zander zendos a zedonk (Mad scientist Zander Rice sends a zedonk he created to a zendo for spiritual healing) [zendos=sends to a zendo for spiritual healing, or establishes zendos in location] (/ZEE-donk/, zebra-donkey) Zander Rice (the movie actor resembles Christopher Walken, but with a narrower face), the sadistic scientist from Marvel who interacts with Wolverine, and who is responsible for the near-annihilation of all mutants, has a change of heart later in his career: He comes upon a mutant beast, a zedonk, and instead of killing it sends it to a zen house of learning (zendo) so that it can find peace with itself.
XE	Zee_Zee zexes a zeze (pianist Zhang Zuo cuts-builds a musical instrument) /zeze=zay-zay/ Zhang Zuo, "Zee Zee", Chinese pianist. She has played with Paavo Jarvi and the CSO, circa 2015. Moved to Germany to study piano at age 5. Later attended U.S. schools: Eastman school of music and Julliard. Zex: a tool for cutting roof slate. A zeze is an East African string instrument with one or two strings and a gourd for a sound box. 
XF	Zefram zarfs a zoff (Zefram Cochrane displays designer eyeglasses in a zarf as he models for a sculpture of himself) [zoff=eyeglasses; zarfs=puts into a zarf sleeve, or spreads the concept of eco-friendly zarfs throughout a location] Zoff is a maker of exclusive eyeglasses. Zarf: a decorative, usually metal, holder for a cup of coffee. Originated in Ethiopia in the 1300's. Predecessor of the modern Starbuck cardboard wrapper. Zefram Cochrane, the Star Trek character who discovers warp drive, first appears in the original series on an asteroid where he co-exists with an entity called "the companion", but he is more famously played by James Cromwell (actor and activist) in the 1996 Star Trek movie.
XG	Ziggy zags a zagone (cartoon character Ziggy paints a lightning bolt on a mask he wears, a la Ziggy Stardust) [zags=paints a zigzag-Charlie Brown pattern on object; zagone=mask] /zuh-GO-nee/ Ziggy Stardust is an alter ego of David Bowie, and was often photographed with a jagged red lightning bolt (makeup) coming from his hair down over his right eye and right cheek. I googled Ziggy the cartoon character and found one image of him with the same lightning bolt, an homage to Bowie. ("Zig" frees me of the dangerous "y") Phil and Bob Zagone, Zagone masks, Melrose Park, Illinois (Halloween masks) "In 1974, Phil and Bob Zagone decided to make the best Halloween masks possible." ...and just so you don't think this is some fly-by-night operation: "The team behind Zagone Studios (which includes BY -Bill Ystrom-) are the people who brought you: 1974 - 1/2 latex, 1/2 ventilated fur fabric;  1977 - 1/2 latex , 1/2 hood with Velcro;  1983 - 1/2 latex with knit stocking hat;  1987 - Moving latex on stretch fabric "sock";  1992 - Moving mouth latex with baseball cap;  1993 - Elastic harness, full mouth movement;  2005 - Short hair elasticized custom fit hairline;  2010 - Supersoft with amazing fit & movement.;  2017-UV Reactive Masks and Costumes;  --More than 45 years of innovation in every product."
XH	Zarathustra zithers a zither (Zoroaster plays a zither) [zithers=serenades, plays for] Zarathustra a.k.a. Zoroaster, Iranian founder of Zoroastrianism, possibly 1500 B.C., more at end. A zither looks like a hammered dulcimer. Many strings, strung over a flat body with no neck. But it is plucked, not hammered. The words "zither" and "guitar" both derive from the Greek "cithara". (Zoroastrian music: still a thing). Zarathustra: name MAY mean "with old camels", "with angry camels", "one who can manage camels". Zarathustra was likely to be his real name, Zoroaster being a later Greek-ified name (meaning "undiluted star"). Founder of Zoroastrianism, important also to people of the Baha'i faith. Ancient prophet of Iran, 2nd millennium B.C., possibly 1500 B.C., but could be from even older. No one knows. OED calls him the world's first philosopher. He wrote the "Gathas", a text which may or may not be contemporary with the Rigveda. He was the first to articulate the following concepts: Monotheism, heaven, hell, free will. "The religion founded by Zoroaster was the first major world religion and has had significant influence on other religious and philosophical systems, including Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Buddhism, the Bahá'í Faith, Gnosticism and Greek philosophy"
XI	Zion zitis a ziz (Zion Marley, as a child, throws ziti pasta at a mythical beast) [ziti's=throws ziti at] Ziti is a cylindrical-noodle pasta. A ziz is a Griffin-like beast in the Jewish tradition. More at end. Zion Marley is the grandson of Bob Marley and son of rapper and singer Lauryn Hill. Zion is a familiar theme for Rastafarians and others, being the promised land (originally Israel, but for Rastafarians Ethiopia). As opposed to Babylon, the place of enslavement. Zion Marley is the subject of Hill's wonderful song "To Zion", written about her pregnancy and his new life. And so I picture Zion as a little boy throwing pasta at a large imaginary beast. Also, Zion recently gave Lauryn Hill her first grandchild, which is fun. (The ziz is a beast of Israeli mythology, so that's topical for Zion). "Often regarded as one of the greatest rappers of all time, as well as being a pioneer in the Neo soul genre, Hill is widely credited for breaking barriers for female rappers, popularizing melodic rapping and for bringing hip hop to popular music". She starred in "Sister Act 2" with Whoopi Goldberg. The ziz: "The Ziz is a giant griffin-like bird in Jewish mythology, said to be large enough to be able to block out the sun with its wingspan." and, "As Leviathan is the king of fishes, so the Ziz is appointed to rule over the birds"
XJ	Zajac zojans a zoje (Travis Zajac welds the sewing machine he will use to mend his own uniform) [zojans=mends a tear in; Zoje=picture the Zoje sewing machine with the brand name "ZOJE" across its main body] {Travis Zajac in the locker room, with a hockey stick} Zojan (original word: Zhongjian) is a brand of hand-held mini-welder from China. (Welding isn't typically about mending tears, more about joining two different pieces, but it will do.) Zoje is a brand of sewing machine from China, established 1994, with offices all over the world. Their machines are classified as industrial, which just means they're a little bigger and can handle thicker fabrics. Travis Zajac, from Winnipeg, is an NHL hockey player with the New Jersey Devils. He looks a bit like Paul Rudd (Ant Man). He has played there for 14 seasons and has played 1000 games, which is a big number. He is a center and scores lots of goals. Like many hockey players, he is humble and gives credit to his team. This sentence, about him doing detail work, is a reference to his heads-down humility. Zajac likes to be able to see the clock and whiteboard from his locker without turning around, during a game. He was once amazed to see fellow teammate hockey star Jagr eating (non-nutritional) muffins at his locker. Zajac on stats: "I think for me, as soon as you start thinking about stats and where you are in goals, even during the year itself, it can really take away from your game and what's important." Zajac on doing the work: "I worked a lot on strength training. I wanted to get bigger and knew that the competition level would be intense, as some guys are 10-to-15 years older than me. The increased muscle I put on coupled with quickness exercises I did have really helped me keep up on the ice." ((March 10, 2021. Have finished fixing the 86 sub-par sentences found in my audit. Have reached the outer ring of excellence, the stage at which I can first refer to my work as an example of "excellence", and am going to try to stop there for the time being, so that I can truly begin to memorize and master the system for use.))
XK	Zak zonks a zerk (Zak Morgan, onstage, hits the grease fitting of a malfunctioning guitar or amp in an attempt to fix it) [zonks=strikes] Zak Morgan is a professional musician based in Cincinnati, recording and performing for children's audiences. Most live performances involve just an acoustic guitar, but he has some bells and whistles and tech going on. A zerk bears a resemblance to a small, thick bolt, but has a unique functionality. A zerk is "a small metal fitting through which grease can be inserted into a mechanical joint that requires periodic lubrication." Patented by Oscar U. Zerk, 1929. Thank you. Oscar! More about zerks/grease fittings (the VW Beetle had exposed zeros on door hinges): "Grease fittings are permanently installed by either a (taper) thread or straight push-fit ('hammer in') arrangement, leaving a nipple connection that a grease gun attaches to. The pressure supplied by the grease gun forces a small captive bearing ball in the fitting to move back against the force of its retaining spring. The arrangement is thus essentially a valve that opens under pressure to allow lubricant to pass through a channel and be forced into the voids of the bearing."
XL	Zale ziplocks a zill (Zale from TV's MASH holds on to a belly dancer's finger cymbal) Zelmo Zale is a recurring character, a mechanic, on MASH. A zill is a finger cymbal used by a belly dancer.
XM	Zimmerman zimmers a zimmer (Bob Dylan drives a tractor, as he sings about a farm) [zimmers=takes on a tractor ride]. Bob Dylan, whose birth name is Robert Zimmerman (he named himself Dylan after American poet Dylan Thomas), has the famous song about the farmer's daughter. Zimmer Tractor is a place you can buy used riding mowers, tractors, etc.
XN	Zanni_one zones a zinnia (Robin Williams, as Mork, decorates the apartment with flowers, carefully sectioning the zinnias by their colors, before proposing to Mindy) [zones=divides (object) into 4 regions with a crayon, in preparation for taking one of the regions] <Marin, California> Zanni-One, a stock clown character, is here represented by the funniest man on Earth, the incomparable comedian and improvisor Robin Williams. Zinnias are related to sunflowers, and famously come in all sorts of bright colors. Editor's note: At age 49, Justin finally finds his identity as a ZANNI. 14th century Italy. A zanni is a stock character in a play, like today's "dumb guy" in a sitcom. (Later, Zanni one, or First Zanni, was the persona of a silly servant, while Second Zanni was the persona of the cunning servant). Zanni is the origin word for "zany". Comedia dell'arte. The zanni was the model from which harlequin was derived. A Zanni is similar to a king's Fool. The role of Zanni is known as being a "stupid genius," this contradiction fails to allow Zanni to approach daily life in a rational manner. Zanni's stupidity prevents him from performing simple tasks, while his genius gives him the ability to make the impossible possible". "Zanni, a character type of Commedia dell'arte best known as an astute servant and a trickster."
XO	Zoolander zooms a zoozoo (Derek Zoolander drives a 5 inch tall zoozoo, in his red convertible, to a planning meeting for his new Center) [zooms=takes along for a drive in a red convertible] {Zoolander in a red convertible with leather jacket and tiny phone} Quick Zoolander quote: "What... is... this? (throws down model) -A center for ants?! ... The center has to be at least... three times bigger than this!" Zoolander and cars: In Zoolander 2, he and his son are in a car crash in a red convertible, which flips over and over, leaving Zoolander's leather jacket intact but getting ice cream all over his son's face. And Ben Stiller has partnered with Fiat, driving a gold convertible around in Fiat ads (He tells a policeman who stops him: " I was driving while hot.") Zoozoo: The Indian phone company Vodafone has an ad campaign featuring creatures called zoozoos. They are poofy, bulbous and white, with egg-shaped heads that come to a point at the nose. There are actually human actors inside the costumes, but they have a look of being entirely CGI. For comic effect, when they get scared they have big mouths drawn on them.
XP	Zippy zaps a zippo (cartoon character Zippy verbally zings zippo lighters, and smoking in general) [zaps=shocks with static electricity by touching] <Dingburg, Maryland, near Baltimore> Zippy, in a 1997 cartoon, encourages the banned Joe Camel to come out of hiding and start a new career. That is the closest Zippy came to doing what this sentence says! Fun fact: Zippy is the origin of the phrase "Are we having fun yet?" (and my personal favorite "Do you hear that, Zippy? It's the call of the open road. 'Two-lane blacktop, two-lane blacktop!' ") The strip got started in 1971. The cartoonist, Bill Griffith, had previously seen a 1932 movie which I believe is the first known instance of pinhead characters.
	
	
XQ	Ziq zzzquils a zaqqum (Mike Paradinas, a.k.a. mu-Ziq, calms down the tree of hell with his electronic music) [zzzquils=pours liquid zzzquil over (object), from the characteristic purple bottle] /Zick ZEE-quils a zah-KOOM/ {Ziq on a couch during an interview, with a gigantic synthesizer in front of him and six big red Persian rugs between himself and the audience} Mu-Ziq is an electronic musician from Wimbledon, England. His name is pronounced "music". The "mu" is the Greek single-letter mu, or "m". His music is pretty cool. He started and runs his own record label, Planet Mu. He now lives in Wooster, south of Birmingham. There isn't a big music scene there, but "it's a good place to raise your kids, and property values are lower." Mu-ziq is balding, with short dark hair and short beard, and has big round glasses. He reminds me of Michael from V-Sauce, and Walter Becker of Steely Dan. Zzzquil is a product made by the Nyquil people, but it is designed to put you to sleep, NOT to relieve cold symptoms. The zaqqum tree, from the Quran, is a tree growing in hell. It is usually pictured as having roots in a fiery, lava-like ground, in hell. There are several real plants in different countries named after it. "According to the Quran, Zaqqum is a tree that 'springs out of the bottom of Hell'. The fruits of Zaqqum are shaped like devils' heads. 'Surely the tree of the Zaqqum is the food of the sinful. Like dregs of oil; it shall boil in (their) bellies. Like the boiling of hot water.. '
XR	Zorro zeroes zoris (Zorro slices up the bad guy's sandals with his classic "Z") [zeroes=destroys/removes, or levels/flattens a location] Zoris are Japanese sandals. Zorro is a character invented in 1910. The first book with Zorro sold 50 million copies, making it one of the best selling books in the history of the world. There have been many Zorro movies and TV shows. He is a vigilante in 1800's Spanish California, righting wrongs and leaving his signature "Z" in his targets' clothing with his rapier (a two-edged sword).
XS	Zissou zasasa's zoisite (Zissou downloads an image of zoisite) [zasasa's=downloads an image or video of, similar to usage of "googles"] Zissou is a character, played by Bill Murray, in the movie comedy "The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou". Zissou and his crew, including Owen Wilson, travel the seas in search of a rare shark that ate (a la Moby Dick) a former member of the crew. I imagine he finds a strange rock along the way and wonders if it's zoisite, so he zasasa's it using the ship's satellite connection. Zasasa is a web service for downloading images and videos. Zoisite is a gemstone [ Ca₂Al₃O(OH) ]. Most images on google are green with purple, but it has varieties with many colors. One variant is Tanzanite, named after its place of origin, Tanzania.
XT	Zoltar zots a zit (Zoltar destroys a zit by turning a teen into an adult) [zot=to cause lightning to strike object] Zoltar is the carnival fortune-telling machine in the movie "Big" that turns Tom Hanks into a grownup, and back again. The original, real Zoltar prop now lives in the Falcon Theater in Burbank, southern California.
XU	Zuzana zuzes a zunzun (Zuzana Caputova buys a hummingbird) {Zuzana on the steps of beautiful San Francisco City Hall, with a plaque} Hummingbirds symbolize speed, flexibility, dexterity, endurance, and perseverance, so I can see why Suzana would buy one. Zunzun is a Spanish slang word for hummingbird. A zuz was an ancient Hebrew silver coin. It appears in a modern Passover song referring to "zuzim". Related to the denarius and drachma. Zuz means "to move" in Hebrew, and the coin may have gotten its name because of the way money moves from one person to another. Zuzana Caputova is the current president of Slovakia, elected in 2019. She is their first woman president, and at age 45 their youngest ever president. "She first became known by prevailing in a decade-long struggle against the situating of a toxic landfill in her hometown of Pezinok. For this, Čaputová was awarded the 2016 Goldman Environmental Prize... The Goldman award was delivered to Čaputová in San Francisco. Her long and eventually triumphant struggle has been compared to that of the American Erin Brockovich." She practices Zen yoga and is an LGBT advocate. (She is blonde, looks a tiny bit like Raquel Welch, with a fuller face)
XV	Zavier zouaves a zouave (Zavier Simpson fights against a fellow fighter) [zouaves=attacks, perhaps in a flamboyant way] /zwahv/ <Lima, Ohio> {Zavier on the court, sinking a hook shot in college basketball} In high school, basketball star Zavier Simpson bested a point record set by his own cousin Greg Simpson. Zavier Simpson, LA Lakers. From Lima, Ohio. His dad was his high school coach. Changed his own name from Xavier to Zavier after his freshman year of college. His college nickname on the court was "Captain Hook". A zouave is a French soldier. They were like the marines of 19th century France. The original zouaves were recruits from Algeria, but it expanded to include European troops. For a long time they continued to wear a chic baggy pants style from Algeria.
XW	Zawe zowies z-wood (British actor Zawe Ashton plugs the beauty of zebrawood) [zowies=adds glitter, streamers, fancy decoration] Zawe is pronounced like "zowie", rhymes with Maui. Zawe Ashton is a British actor. Zawe's father is English, her mother is from Uganda, and her grandfather was the president and prime minister of Uganda. Zebrawood, a.k.a. zebrano, is a west African tree, but from the map I'm almost positive there must be a few zebrano trees in the central African country of Uganda too. So i imagine Zawe talking about the beauty of her mother's country, including zebrawood. She was in a dramatic Broadway play called "Betrayal", written around 1970, with two men. Plays that Zawe herself has written include "She from the Sea".
XX	
XY	Zay zymes a zymometer (beer brewer Isaiah contaminates one of his instruments) [zymes=infects with bacteria via a test tube spill] Isaiah is a bartender at Uptown Garage Brewing in Iowa, who believes in unicorns. "Zay" is sometimes short for Isaiah. zym=Greek for yeast/leavening. In the early days of medical biology, a "zyme" was a word for an enzyme that had fermented and gone bad and now caused disease. A zymometer is a real tool for measuring the amount of fermentation in beer as it's brewing. And that, my friends, is how you come up with 576 unique sentences for almost every pairing of letters in the English alphabet.